 

 
COMMISSIONERS:            Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 

 

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 
 

 

 

 

 

142 3025 

Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
____________________________________ 
 
) 
In the Matter of               
) 
) 
                                              
PDB Sports, Ltd., 
)            
(d/b/a the Denver Broncos Football Club), ) 
a limited partnership.                                   )  
___________________________________  ) 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

DOCKET NO. C-4468 

DECISION AND ORDER 
 

The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission” or “FTC”), having initiated an 

investigation of certain acts and practices of the respondent named in the caption hereof, and the 
respondent having been furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft complaint that the Bureau of 
Consumer Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which, if 
issued by the Commission, would charge respondent with violations of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act (“FTC Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 45, et seq.;  
 

The respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed  

an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), which includes: a statement  
by respondent that it neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft complaint,  
except as specifically stated in the Consent Agreement, and, only for purposes of this action,  
admits the facts necessary to establish jurisdiction; and waivers and other provisions as required  
by the Commission’s Rules; and  
 

The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it 
had reason to believe that the respondent has violated the FTC Act, and that a complaint should 
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed consent 
agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for the 
receipt and consideration of public comments, and having duly considered the comments 
received from interested persons pursuant to section 2.34 of its Rules, now in further conformity 
with the procedure prescribed in Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, the Commission 
hereby issues its complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings, and enters the following 
Order:  
 

 

Page 1 of 4 

1. 

 
2. 

 

 

2. 

Respondent PDB Sports, Ltd., doing business as the Denver Broncos Football Club, is a 
Colorado limited partnership with its principal office or place of business at 13655 
Broncos Parkway, Englewood, CO 80112.  

Respondent neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft complaint, except 
as specifically stated in this order.  Only for purposes of this action, respondent admits 
the facts necessary to establish jurisdiction. 

ORDER 

DEFINITIONS 

 
For purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply: 
 
1. 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean PDB Sports, Ltd., doing business as 
the Denver Broncos Football Club, and its successors and assigns. 
 
“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 
15 U.S.C. § 44. 
 

I. 

II. 

IT IS ORDERED that respondent and its officers, agents, representatives, and 

 
 
employees, whether acting directly or indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, 
promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not 
misrepresent in any manner, expressly or by implication, the extent to which respondent is a 
member of, adheres to, complies with, is certified by, is endorsed by, or otherwise participates in 
any privacy or security program sponsored by the government or any other self-regulatory or 
standard-setting organization, including, but not limited to, the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework 
and the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework. 
 

 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain and upon request make 

 
 
available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy 
of, for a period of five (5) years from the date of preparation or dissemination, whichever is later, 
all documents relating to compliance with this order, including but not limited to: 
 

A. 

all advertisements, promotional materials, and any other statements containing 
any representations covered by this order, with all materials relied upon in 
disseminating the representation; and   

any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, that call into 
question respondent’s compliance with this order. 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 
B. 

 

 

 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all 

 
 
current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future 
employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of 
this order.  Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days 
after service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the person 
assumes such position or responsibilities.  Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement 
acknowledging receipt of this order, within thirty (30) days of delivery, from all persons 
receiving a copy of the order pursuant to this section. 
 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission within 

 
 
fourteen (14)  days of any change in the partnership(s) that may affect compliance obligations 
arising under this order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or 
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or 
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this 
order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the partnership name or 
address.  Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission in writing, all notices 
required by this Part shall be emailed to Debrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight courier (not the 
U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, 
Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20580.  The 
subject line must begin:  In re PDB Sports, Ltd., d/b/a the Denver Broncos Football Club, FTC 
File No. 1423025.   

III. 

IV. 

 
V. 

VI. 

 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, and its successors and assigns, within 

 
 
ninety (90) days after the date of service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true and 
accurate report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this 
order.  Within ten (10) days of receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, 
it shall submit an additional true and accurate written report.  
 

This order will terminate on June 19, 2034, or twenty (20) years from the most recent 

 
 
date that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an 
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever 
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 
 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

A. 
 
B. 

 
C. 

any Part in this order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years; 

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 
complaint; and 

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this 
Part. 

 
Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did 
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld 
on appeal, then the order as to such respondent will terminate according to this Part as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEAL: 
ISSUED:  June 19, 2014 
 

By the Commission, Commissioner McSweeny not participating. 

 
 

 
 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

 
 

 
 

 

Page 4 of 4 

