 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20580 

 
 

           June 19, 2014 

 

 
 
  Office of the Secretary 
 

 

 

 

Chris Connolly  
Bath, United Kingdom 
 
Re:  

 
Dear Mr. Connolly:  
 

In the Matter of Apperian, Inc., File No. 1423017; Atlanta Falcons Football Club LLC , File 
No. 1423018; Baker Tilly Virchow Krause, LLP, File No. 1423019; BitTorrent, Inc., File No. 
1423020; Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., File No. 1423022; DataMotion, 
Inc., File No. 1423023; DDC Laboratories, Inc., File No. 1423024; Fantage.com, Inc., File 
No. 1423026; Level 3 Communications, LLC, File No. 1423028; PDB Sports, Ltd. d/b/a 
Denver Broncos Football Club, File No. 1423025; Reynolds Consumer Products Inc., File 
No. 1423030;  The Receivable Management Services Corporation, File No. 1423031; and 
Tennessee Football, Inc., File No. 1423032. 

Thank you for your comments regarding the Federal Trade Commission’s (“Commission” or 

“FTC”) consent agreements in the above-entitled proceedings.  The Commission has placed your 
comments on the public record pursuant to Rule 4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
16 C.F.R. § 4.9(b)(6)(ii), and has given them serious consideration.  
 

In these 13 cases, the proposed complaints allege that the Respondents engaged in deceptive 

practices by falsely representing, either expressly or by implication, that they were current 
participants in the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework and/or the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework 
(collectively “Safe Harbor framework”) when, in fact, each company had allowed its self-
certification to lapse.  In some cases the proposed complaints also allege that those companies 
deceptively displayed the Safe Harbor Certification Mark. The proposed orders prohibit each 
company from misrepresenting the extent to which each is a member of, adheres to, complies with, 
is certified by, is endorsed by, or otherwise participates in any privacy or security program 
sponsored by the government or any other self-regulatory or standard-setting organization, 
including, but not limited to, the Safe Harbor framework. 
 

In your comments, you:  (1) inquire whether several of the Respondents have been the 

subject of previous action by the Commission and if so, recommend that sanctions against those 
Respondents be strengthened; (2) urge the Commission to take action with respect to True Ultimate 
Standards Everywhere, Inc. (“TRUSTe”) because some Respondents participated in TRUSTe’s 
U.S.-EU Safe Harbor program and were re-certified by TRUSTe although their privacy policies 
included false statements about their participation in the Safe Harbor framework; (3) suggest that the 
Commission require certain Respondents to identify the dispute resolution provider they have 
chosen; (4) urge the Commission to strengthen the sanctions against Respondent DDC Laboratories, 

Inc. (“DDC”); and (5) ask the Commission to correct inaccuracies in a press release issued by 
Respondent Apperian, Inc. (“Apperian”).    
 

In several of your comments, you inquire whether certain Respondents have been the subject 

of previous action by the Commission and if so, you recommend that sanctions against those 
Respondents be strengthened.  Specifically, you inquire whether the Commission has taken action 
before against Respondent Atlanta Falcons Football Club, LLC (“Atlanta Falcons”) or against 
Respondent BitTorrent, Inc. (“BitTorrent”).  All FTC enforcement actions are made part of the 
public record.  The above-entitled proceedings are the first enforcement actions the Commission has 
taken against the Atlanta Falcons and against BitTorrent.   
 

While we do not believe there is a basis to impose heightened sanctions on either Respondent 

at this time, the Commission does share your concern with respect to continuing violations.  Please 
note that if any of the Respondents misrepresent the extent to which it is a member of, adheres to, 
complies with, is certified by, is endorsed by, or otherwise participates in any privacy or security 
program sponsored by the government or any other self-regulatory or standard-setting organization 
or violates any other term of the final order, it could be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to 
$16,000 per violation, or up to $16,000 per day in the case of continuing violations (as provided by 
Section 5(l) of the FTC Act).  
 

In several comments, you also urge the Commission to take action with respect to TRUSTe 

because some Respondents participated in TRUSTe’s U.S.-EU Safe Harbor program and were re-
certified by TRUSTe although their privacy policies included false statements about their 
participation in the Safe Harbor framework.  We appreciate your comments.  We also note that you 
have previously filed a complaint with the Commission regarding TRUSTe.  The Commission 
cannot comment on whether it is investigating any particular companies or allegations.   However, 
the Commission takes seriously the role of self-regulatory privacy programs that certify company 
compliance with the Safe Harbor framework, such as TRUSTe.  Ensuring the effective operation of 
the Safe Harbor framework is an important component of the Commission’s mission.  
 

On two occasions, your comments assert that the Safe Harbor framework requires that 
organizations identify an independent dispute resolution provider in their privacy policies and 
provide consumers with contact information for that service.  In one comment, you note that 
Respondent DataMotion has not provided identifying information for its dispute resolution provider 
in its privacy policy and ask that the Commission require DataMotion to do so. However, while 
organizations are encouraged to include this information in their privacy policies, to satisfy the 
requirements of self-certification, laid out in FAQ 6 at 
http://export.gov/safeharbor/eu/eg_main_018388.asp, organizations need only identify the 
independent dispute resolution provider they use in the certification they file with the Department of 
Commerce (“DOC”).  The DOC maintains a website, available to the public, at 
www.export.gov/safeharbor, where it posts the certifications filed by companies that have self-
certified to the Safe Harbor framework.  Consumers may consult this website not only to determine 
whether a company is a “current” member of the Safe Harbor framework, but also to determine 
which independent dispute resolution provider the company has chosen.  
 

 

2 

In November 2013, the European Commission (“EC”) released a report on Safe Harbor in 

which it recommended that the Safe Harbor framework be strengthened by requiring that the privacy 
policies on organizations’ websites include a link to the independent dispute resolution provider the 
organization has chosen.  The EC noted that since March 2013, the DOC has more explicitly 
recommended that organizations take this step in the guidance it provides to organizations and on the 
Safe Harbor website.  The DOC continues to explore ways to help citizens better understand the 
rights and recourse available to them under the Safe Harbor framework.1   
 

In a second related comment, you note that Respondent Baker Tilly Virchow Krause, LLP’s 

(“Baker Tilly”) privacy policy includes inconsistent information about the independent dispute 
resolution provider it uses.  Baker Tilly has since clarified its privacy policy to conform with the 
information in its DOC certification, both of which now state that disputes will be resolved in 
Europe by the EU Data Protection Authority Panel.   
 

Further, you request that the Commission strengthen the sanctions against Respondent DDC 

Laboratories due to the type of consumer data that DDC collects.  You state that the proposed 
consent order “merely requires the company to comply with a framework that it should have already 
been applying in its daily work.”  It is important to reiterate that the proposed complaint against 
DDC alleges that the company misrepresented that it was a current participant in the Safe Harbor 
framework, when, in fact, its self-certification had lapsed.  There is no allegation that DDC 
substantively violated any of the privacy principles of the Safe Harbor framework or that personal 
data was at risk.  Still, this order, and the orders with all the other Respondents, has the effect of 
requiring the companies to abide by the substantive Safe Harbor principles for as long as they choose 
to represent that they comply with the Safe Harbor Framework.  In addition, if one of the 
Respondent companies chooses to leave Safe Harbor, it must continue to apply the Safe Harbor 
principles to the covered data it collected while participating in the program for as long as it stores, 
uses, or discloses that data.  Accordingly, the Commission believes that the proposed order 
appropriately addresses the conduct at issue and demonstrates that the Commission takes seriously 
misrepresentations about membership in the Safe Harbor framework.   
 

Finally, you urge the Commission to correct inaccuracies contained in a press release issued 
by Respondent Apperian which stated that the company was “only a few weeks late” to recertify to 
the Safe Harbor framework.  The FTC’s proposed complaint against Apperian outlines the time 
frame during which the company allegedly misrepresented its adherence to the Safe Harbor 
framework and deceptively displayed the Safe Harbor Certification Mark.  In addition, the 
Commission has confirmed that Apperian has taken down the inaccurate statements at issue.  The 
Commission urges consumers who have questions about the details of any FTC case or settlement to 
review the pleadings, which are posted on the FTC website at http://www.ftc.gov, and refer to any 

                                                 

1 The FTC, as the enforcer of Safe Harbor certifications, welcomes the EC’s November 2013 recommendations 
concerning Safe Harbor, and is committed to a productive dialogue with the EC on the issue.  See Letter from 
Chairwoman Ramirez to Vice-President Reding (Nov. 13, 2013), available at 
http://www.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/public_statements/letter-chairwoman-edith-ramirez-expressing-
federal-trade-commissions-commitment-protecting-consumer/131112europeanvivianeredingletter.pdf; FTC Staff 
Comments to European Commission Review of the  U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, available at 
http://www.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/public_statements/privacy-enforcement-safe-harbor-comments-ftc-
staff-european-commission-review-u.s.eu-safe-harbor-framework/131112europeancommissionsafeharbor.pdf. 

 

3 

corresponding FTC press release for a summary of the allegations and the terms of the order to 
which a Respondent is bound.  
 

In light of the considerations discussed above, the Commission has determined that the 

public interest would best be served by issuing the Decision and Orders in the above-entitled 
proceedings in final form without any modifications.  The final Decision and Orders and other 
relevant materials are available from the Commission’s website at http://www.ftc.gov/.  It helps the 
Commission’s analysis to hear from a variety of sources in its work, and it thanks you again for your 
comment.  
 

 

By direction of the Commission, Commissioner McSweeny not participating. 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary  

 

 

 

4 

