 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Federal Trade Commission 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20580 

 
 

           June 25, 2014 

 

 
 
  Office of the Secretary 
 

 

 

 
Robert Webb 
Peoria, Arizona 85382 
 
Re:  

 
Dear Mr. Webb: 

In the Matter of PDB Sports, Ltd. d/b/a Denver Broncos Football Club, File No. 
1423025. 

Thank you for your comment regarding the Federal Trade Commission’s (“Commission” 

or “FTC”) consent agreement in the above-entitled proceeding.  The Commission has placed 
your comment on the public record pursuant to Rule 4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, 16 C.F.R. § 4.9(b)(6)(ii), and has given it serious consideration.   

Your comment notes that, due to the Section 5 violation alleged in the Commission 

complaint, PDB Sports, Ltd. d/b/a Denver Broncos Football Club (“the Denver Broncos”) should 
be “stripped of the conference title” or should not be “allowed to ‘compete’ in the upcoming 
Super Bowl.”  The proposed complaint against the Denver Broncos alleges that the team 
misrepresented that it was a current participant in the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework, when, in 
fact, its self-certification had lapsed.  The proposed order prohibits the Denver Broncos from 
making such misrepresentations in the future.  If they do, or if they violate any other term of the 
final order, they could be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to $16,000 per violation, or up 
to $16,000 per day in the case of continuing violations (as provided by Section 5(l) of the FTC 
Act).  Accordingly, the Commission feels that the proposed order appropriately addresses the 
conduct at issue in this case. 

In light of the considerations discussed above, the Commission has determined that the 

 
public interest would best be served by issuing the Decision and Orders in the above-titled 
proceeding in final form without an modifications.  The final Decision and Orders and other 
relevant materials are available from the Commission’s website at http://www.ftc.gov.  It helps 
the Commission’s analysis to hear from a variety of sources in its work, and it thanks you again 
for your comment. 
 

By direction of the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

2 

