 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Federal Trade Commission 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20580 

 
 

           June 25, 2014 

 

 
 
  Office of the Secretary 
 

 

 

 
David Vaile 
Sydney, Australia 
 
Re:  

In the Matter of Atlanta Falcons Football Club LLC, File No. 1423018; In the Matter 
of DDC Laboratories, Inc., File No. 14230; In the Matter of PDB Sports, Ltd. d/b/a 
Denver Broncos Football Club, File No. 1423025 

 
Dear Mr. Vaile: 

 

 

Thank you for your comments regarding the Federal Trade Commission’s 

(“Commission” or “FTC”) consent agreements in the above-entitled proceedings.  The 
Commission has placed your comments on the public record pursuant to Rule 4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 16 C.F.R. § 4.9(b)(6)(ii), and has given them serious 
consideration.   

In your comments about the Atlanta Falcons and Denver Broncos Football Clubs, you ask 

that the Commission also take action against TRUSTe because “TRUSTe’s actions included 
verifying false claims” in these cases.  The Commission cannot comment on whether it is 
investigating any particular companies or allegations.   However, the Commission takes seriously 
the role of self-regulatory privacy programs that certify company compliance with the Safe 
Harbor framework, such as TRUSTe.  Ensuring the effective operation of the Safe Harbor 
framework is an important component of the Commission’s mission.  
 

In your comment relating to respondent DDC Laboratories (“DDC”), you object to the 

“light touch” of proposed order.  You request that the Commission strengthen the sanctions 
against DDC due to the sensitivity of the consumer data that it collects.  It is important to note 
that the proposed complaint against DDC alleges that it misrepresented that it was a current 
participant in the Safe Harbor framework, when, in fact, its self-certification had lapsed.  The 
proposed complaint does not allege that DDC substantively violated any of the privacy principles 
of the Safe Harbor framework or that personal data was at risk. 
 

The proposed order prohibits DDC from misrepresenting the extent to which it is a 

member of, adheres to, complies with, is certified by, is endorsed by, or otherwise participates in 
any privacy or security program sponsored by the government or any other self-regulatory or 
standard-setting organization, including, but not limited to, the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework 
or the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework. Should the company claim to abide by the Safe 
Harbor but not abide with its underlying principles, it could be violating the terms of the order 
and be liable for civil penalties of up to $16,000 per violation, or up to $16,000 per day in the 

In light of the considerations discussed above, the Commission has determined that the 

case of continuing violations (as provided by Section 5(l) of the FTC Act).  Thus, the order has 
the effect of requiring the company to abide by the substantive Safe Harbor principles.  The 
Commission believes that the order in this matter is appropriate to adequately address the 
violations at issue and to provide fencing-in relief.   
  
 
public interest would best be served by issuing the Decision and Orders in the above-titled 
proceedings in final form without any modifications.  The final Decision and Orders and other 
relevant materials are available from the Commission’s website at http://www.ftc.gov.  It helps 
the Commission’s analysis to hear from a variety of sources in its work, and it thanks you again 
for your comment. 
 

By direction of the Commission. 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary  

 

 

 

2 

