Exhibit A 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Confidential Exhibit B 

 
[Redacted from the public record version, but incorporated by 
reference] 

Exhibit BJerk.com - Public Service personal news

Find a Person, an University, or a City

Welcome to Jerk

Looking for the latest scoop on a world filled with Jerks?

Sign in to your account

Want to join the millions of people who already use Jerk for important updates
for business, dating, and more?

Back for more fun? Sign in now to and grow to Sainthood while avoiding
millions of jerks along the way.

Don't worry we have room for one more!

Subscribers on Jerk yourself and receive free benefits including:

1. Fast notifications of postings about you!
2. Updates on people you know and are tracking.
3. Search for people you know, and read about people you are interested in.
4. Enter comments and reviews for people you interact with.
5. Help others avoid the wrong people.
6. Praise those who help you and move good people closer to sainthood!

Subscribe

E-mail Address:

Password:

Forgot your password?

Keep me signed. Don't check this box if you're at a public or shared computer.

Don't have an account?

Sign in

Sign up now

© 2012 Jerk | Contact | Terms & Conditions | Copyright Information | Sign up Now

Having problems with signing in? Get help

http://www.jerk.com/signin.php?rurl=http://www.jerk.com/[5/1/2012 3:00:02 PM]

Exhibit CAbout Us: jerk.com and Jerk LLC
1. jerk.com Membership Terms & Conditions
To use this service, you must be at least 14 years old. jerk.com is an online web application created to help keep consumers informed. Jerk LLC is operated by Jerk LLC. This
is a legal agreement ("Agreement") between you and Jerk LLC. Please read the Agreement carefully before registering for jerk.com. By using jerk.com, you agree to be bound
by the terms and conditions of this Agreement (the "Terms"). If you do not agree to the Terms, you are not permitted to use jerk.com. The Terms are subject to change by Jerk
LLC, at any time, without notice, effective upon posting of a link to same on our website. Persons who are under 14 years old may not use jerk.com. By using jerk.com, you
represent and warrant that you are at least 14 years old. Jerk LLC reserves the right to immediately suspend or terminate your registration with jerk.com, without notice, upon
any breach of this Agreement by you which is brought to Jerk LLC's attention. Your registration with jerk.com is for your sole, personal use. You may not authorize others to use
your user identification and password, and you may not assign or otherwise transfer your account to any other person or entity.

2. Online Conduct
You agree that: You are solely responsible for the content or information you publish or display (hereinafter, "post") on jerk.com. You will NOT post on jerk.com any defamatory,
inaccurate,  abusive,  obscene,  profane,  offensive,  threatening,  harassing,  racially  offensive,  or  illegal  material,  or  any  material that infringes or violates another party's rights
(including, but not limited to, intellectual property rights, and rights of privacy and publicity). You will use jerk.com in a manner consistent with any and all applicable laws and
regulations. By posting information on jerk.com, you warrant and represent that the information is truthful and accurate. You will not post, distribute or reproduce in any way any
copyrighted material, trademarks, or other proprietary information without obtaining the prior written consent of the owner of such proprietary rights and except as otherwise
permitted by law.

3. Indemnity
You  will  defend,  indemnify,  and  hold  harmless  Jerk  LLC,  its  officers,  directors,  employees,  agents and third parties, for any losses, costs, liabilities and expenses (including
reasonable attorneys' fees) relating to or arising out of your use of jerk.com, including, but not limited to, any breach by you of the terms of this Agreement

4. Online Content
Opinions, advice, statements, offers, or other information or content made available through jerk.com are those of their respective authors and not of Jerk LLC, and should not
necessarily be relied upon. Such authors are solely responsible for the accuracy of such content. Jerk LLC does not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of
any information on jerk.com and neither adopts nor endorses nor is responsible for the accuracy or reliability of any opinion, advice or statement made. Under no circumstances
will Jerk LLC be responsible for any loss or damage resulting from anyone's reliance on information or other content posted on jerk.com.

5. Removal of Information
By posting information on jerk.com, you understand and agree that the material will not be removed even at your request. You shall remain solely responsible for the content of
your postings on jerk.com. While we do not and cannot review every message posted by users of the Service, and are not responsible for any content of these messages, we
reserve the right, but are not obligated, to delete or remove profanity, obscenities, threats of physical violence or damage to property, and private financial information such as
social security numbers and credit card information.

6. Proprietary Rights/Grant of Exclusive Rights
By  posting  information  or  content  to  any  public  area  of  Jerk  LLC,  you  automatically  grant,  and  you  represent  and  warrant that you have the right to grant, to Jerk LLC an
irrevocable, perpetual, fully-paid, worldwide exclusive license to use, copy, perform, display and distribute such information and content and to prepare derivative works of, or
incorporate into other works, such information and content, and to grant and authorize sublicenses of the foregoing.

7. Information Supplied by You
Except as provided otherwise in its privacy policy, Jerk LLC will not keep confidential information supplied by you to Jerk LLC, and shall use or disclose such information for the
purposes for which such information was collected, or as required by law. Whereas you are legally entitled to publish your comments anonymously, at the discretion of Jerk
LLC, the personally identifying information of any user may lose any confidential protections.

8. Disclaimer of Warranty
Jerk  LLC  provides  jerk.com  on  an  "as  is"  basis  and  grants  no  warranties  of  any  kind,  express,  implied,  statutory, in connection with jerk.com or in connection with any
communication with Jerk LLC or its representatives, or otherwise with respect to jerk.com. Jerk LLC specifically disclaims any implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a

Exhibit D - 1particular purpose, or non-infringement. Jerk LLC does not warrant that jerk.com's connection to the internet will be secure, uninterrupted, always available, or error-free, or will
meet your requirements, or that any defects in jerk.com will be corrected.

9. Limitation of Liability
In no event will Jerk LLC be liable: (i) to you for any incidental, consequential, or indirect damages arising out of the use of or inability to use jerk.com, even if Jerk LLC or its
agents  or  representatives  know  or  have  been  advised  of  the  possibility  of  such  damages  or:  (ii)  to  any  person  other  than  you. In addition, Jerk LLC disclaims all liability,
regardless of the form of action, for the acts or omissions of other members or users (including, but not limited to, unauthorized users, or "hackers") of jerk.com.

10. State by State Variations
Certain jurisdictions limit the applicability of warranty disclaimers and limitations of liability so the above disclaimers of warranty and limitations of liability may not apply to you.

11. General Provisions
You agree that Arizona law (regardless of conflicts of law principles) shall govern this Agreement, that any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be subject to
the  exclusive  venue  of  the  federal  and  state  courts  in  the  State  of  Arizona,  and  that  you  submit  to  the  exclusive  jurisdiction of the federal and state courts in the State of
Arizona in connection with jerk.com or this Agreement. The failure of Jerk LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of the Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver
of such right or provision. The failure of Jerk LLC or You to exercise in any respect any right provided for herein shall not be deemed a waiver of any further rights hereunder.
This Agreement, accepted upon registering for jerk.com, contains the entire agreement between you and Jerk LLC regarding the use of jerk.com. This Agreement may only be
amended  upon  notice  by  Jerk  LLC  to  you,  or  by  a  writing  signed  by  you  and  an  authorized  official  of  Jerk  LLC.  Unless  otherwise  explicitly stated, the Terms will survive
termination of your registration with jerk.com. If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.

12.  Copyright  Policy/Termination  of  User  Privileges  for  Infringement  and  Contact
Information for Suspected Copyright Infringement/DMCA Notices
We  will  terminate  the  privileges  of  any  user  who  uses  jerk.com  to  unlawfully  transmit  copyrighted  material  without  a  license,  express consent, valid defense or fair use
exemption to do so. In particular, users who submit user content to jerk.com, whether articles, images, stories, software or other copyrightable material must ensure that the
content  they  upload  does  not  infringe  the  copyrights  of  third  parties.  If  you  believe  that  your  copyright  has  been  infringed  through  the use of jerk.com, please contact our
Customer Service.

© 2012 Jerk | Contact | Terms & Conditions | Copyright Information  | Sign up Now

Exhibit D - 2Jerk.com - Public Service personal news

Find a Person, an University, or a City

Post a Jerk
Fill out the form below to find or create a profile on jerk. Include a picture if you can and as much other information as possible.

© 2012 Jerk | Contact | Terms & Conditions | Copyright Information | Sign up Now

http://www.jerk.com/post.php[5/1/2012 2:59:02 PM]

Exhibit EJerk.com
@jerk_com
http://www.jerk.com

Follow Jerk.com

Tweets

Have an account? Sign in

 Follow

3 TWEETS

0 FOLLOWING

10 FOLLOWERS

Full name

Email

Password

Tweets

Following

Followers

Favorites

Lists

© 2012 Twitter About Help Terms Privacy
Blog Status Apps Resources Jobs
Advertisers Businesses Media Developers
Directory

Jerk.com @jerk_com
Check out our news section!
Collapse  
 Retweet 

 Reply 

 Favorite

3 Mar 10

4:47 AM - 3 Mar 10 · Details

Jerk.com @jerk_com
Find out what your "friends" are saying about you behind
your back to the rest of the world!
Collapse  

 Retweet 

 Favorite

 Reply 

11:31 AM - 24 Feb 10 · Details

Jerk.com @jerk_com
JERK.COM - Where the truth comes out!
 Favorite
Collapse  

 Retweet 

 Reply 

11:30 AM - 24 Feb 10 · Details

24 Feb 10

24 Feb 10

Exhibit FRemove Me!

 
        Just  because  you  have  a  profile on Jerk does not mean you are a jerk.
Less than 5% of the millions of people on Jerk are jerks. Jerk is where you
find out if someone is a jerk, is not a jerk, or is a saint in the eyes of others.
No  one`s  profile  is  ever  removed  because  Jerk  is based on searching free
open internet
 

 

searching  databases  and  it`s  not  possible  to  remove  things  from the Internet.
You can however use Jerk to manage your reputation and resolve disputes with
people  who  you  are  in  conflict  with.  There  are  also  additional paid premium
features that are available http://www.jerk.com/signin.php

 

 

© 2012 Jerk | Contact | Terms & Conditions | Copyright Information  | Sign up Now

Exhibit G(If your billing information does not match billing address for credit card, there will be delays in order processing.)

You must be a subscriber member in order to create a dispute!

Become A Subscriber

Billing Information

Last Name:*

 

M.I.:

 

 

Postal Code:

  

First Name:*

Email:*

Street Address:

City:

State/Region:

Massachusetts

Country:

United States

Phone Number:

Gold Membership

 (under development)

Standard membership

 $30 / year

Card Number

CVC

Expiration

6

 /  2013

Amount

Submit

© 2012 Jerk | Contact | Terms & Conditions | Copyright Information  | Sign up Now

Exhibit HContact Us

Please complete the form below:

Currently, we provide support in English. Please use a supported language when contacting us.

Please be as specific as possible in the message you enter below.

Note: If you want to remove your profile, click here

Subject:

Ex: How can I change my profile information?

Profile URL:

Your profile link

Enter email address:

Ex: jsmith@example.com 

Additional Information (description, urls):

 Feedback
 Report Abuse 

Please use 1,000 characters max

 

Anti-bot verification:
If you are not logged in there is a service charge of $25 for support. This charge is refundable at our sole
discretion. 

 

Card Number

CVC

Expiration

5

 /  2012

Amount

Submit

© 2012 Jerk | Contact | Terms & Conditions | Copyright Information | Sign up Now

Exhibit I