ORIGINAL 

PUBLIC 

Ul\I'ITED STATES OF AMERICA 
F EDERAL TRADE C OMMISSION 

OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW J UDGES 

In the Matter of 

Jerk,  LLC, a limited liability company, 
also d/b/a JERK. COM, and 

John F~mning,  individually and as a member of 
Jerk, LLC, 

Respondents. 

__________ ___  ) 

DOCKET NO. 9361 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

PROTECTIVE ORDER GOVERI'HNG DISCOVE RY MATERIAL 

Commission Rule 3.3 1(d) states:  "In order to protect the parties and third parties 
against improper use< and disclosure of confidential information, the Administrative Law 
Judge shall issue a protective order as set forth in the appendix to this section."  16 C.F.R. 
ยง 3.3 1(d).  Pursuant to Commission Rule 3.3 1(d), the protective order set forth in the 
appendi x to that section is attached verbatim as Attachment A and is hereby issued. 

ORDERED: 

Date:  April 8, 2014 

tchael Chapp 

D. 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 

ATTACHMENT A 

For the purpose of protecting the interests of the parties and third parties in the 

above-captioned matter against improper use and disclosure of confidential information 
submitted or produced in c01mection with this matter: 

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT this Protective Order Governing 

Confidential Material ("Protective Order") shall govern the handling of all Discovery 
Material, as hereafter defined. 

1.  As used in this Order, "confidential material" shall refer to any docmnent or portion 
ti1ereofthat contains privileged, competitively sensitive information, or sensitive personal 
information.  "Sensitive personal information" shall refer to, but shall not be limited to, 
an individual's Social Security number, taxpayer identification nw11ber, financial account 
number, credit card or debit card number, driver's license number, state-issued 
identification number, passpm1 number, date of birth (other than year), and any sensitive 
health information identifiable by individual, such as an individual's medical records. 
"Document" shall refer to any discoverable writing, recording, transcript of oral 
testimony, or electronically stored information in the possession of a party or a third 
party.  "Commission" shall refer to the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), or any of its 
employees, agents, attorneys, and all other persons acting on its behalf, excluding persons 
retained as consultants or expe11s for purposes of this proceeding. 

2.  Any document or portion thereof submitted by a respondent or a third pa11y during a 
Federal Trade Commission investigation or during the course of this proceeding that is 
entitled to confidentiality under the Federal Trade Commission Act, or any regulation, 
interpretation, or precedent concerning documents in the possession of the Commission 
as well as any information taken from any portion of such document, shall be treated as 
confidential material for purposes of this Order.  The identity of a third party submitting 
such confidential material shall also be treated as confidential material for the purposes of 
this Order where the submitter has requested such confidential treatment. 

3. The parties and any third parties, in complying with informal discovery requests, 
disclosure requirements, or discovery demands in this proceeding may designate any 
responsive document or portion thereof as confidential material, including documents 
obtained by them from third parties pursuant to discovery or as otherwise obtained. 

4. The parties, in conducting discovery from third parties, shall provide to each third 
party a copy of this Order so as to inform each such third party of his, her, or its rights 
herein. 

5.  A designation of confidentiality shall constitute a representation in good faith and after 
careful determination that the material is not reasonably believed to be already in the 
public domain and that counsel believes the material so designated constitutes 
confidential material as defined in Paragraph 1 of this Order. 

2 

6. Material may be designated as confidential by placing on or affixing to the document 
containing such material (in such manner as will  not interfere with the legibility thereof), 
or if an entire folder or box of documents is confidential  by placing or affixing to that 
folder or box, the designation "CONFIDENTIAL- FTC Docket No.  9361" or any other 
appropriate notice that identifies this proceeding, together with an indication of the 
portion or portions of the document considered to  be confidential material.  Confidential 
information contained in electronic documents may also be designated as confidential by 
placing the designation " CONFIDENTIAL- FTC Docket No. 9361" or any other 
appropriate notice that identifies this proceeding, on the face of the CD or DVD or other 
medium on which the document  is produced.  Masked or otherwise redacted copies of 
documents may be produced where the portions deleted contain privileged matter, 
provided that the copy produced shall indicate at the appropriate point that portions have 
been deleted and the reasons therefor. 

7. Confidential material shall  be disclosed only to: (a) the Administrative Law Judge 
presiding over this proceeding, personnel assisting the Administrative Law Judge, the 
Commission and its employees, and personnel retained by the Commission as experts or 
consultants tor this proceeding; (b) j udges and other court personnel of any court having 
jurisdiction over any appellate proceedings involving tllis matter; (c) outside counsel of 
record for any respondent, their associated attorneys and other employees of their law 
finn(s), provided they are not employees of a respondent; (d) anyone retained to assist 
outside counsel in the preparation or hearing of this proceeding including consultants, 
provided they are not affiliated in any way with a respondent and have signed an 
agreement to abide by the tenns of the protective order; and (e) any witness or deponent 
who may have authored or received the information in question. 

8. Disclosure of confidential material to any person described in Paragraph 7 of this 
Order shall be only for the purposes of the preparation and hearing of this proceeding, or 
any appeal therefrom, and for no other purpose whatsoever, provided, however, that the 
Commission may, subject to taking appropriate steps to  preserve the confidentiality of 
such material, use or disclose confidential material as provided by  its Rules of Practice; 
sections 6(f) and 21 of the Federal Trade Commission Act; or any other legal obligation 
imposed upon the Commission. 

9. In  the event that any confidential material is contruned in any pleading, motion, exhibit 
or other paper filed or to be fi led with the Secretary of the Conunission, the Secretary 
shall be so informed by the Party filing such papers, and such papers shall be filed in 
camera.  To the extent that such material was originally sublllitted by a third party, the 
party including the materials in its papers shall immediately notify the submitter of such 
inclusion.  Confidential material contained in the papers shall continue to have in camera 
treatment until further order of the Administrative Law Judge, provided, however, that 
such papers may be furnished to persons or entities who may receive confidential 
material pursuant to Paragraphs 7 or 8.  Upon or after filing any paper containing 
confidential material, the filing party shall file on the public record a duplicate copy of 
tbe paper that does not reveal confidential material.  Further, if the protection for any 
such material expires. a party may file on the public record a duplicate copy which also 
contains the fonnedy protected material. 

3 

10. If counsel plans to introduce into evidence at the hearing any document or transcript 
containing confidential material produced by another party or by a third party, they shall 
provide advance notice to the other party or third party for purposes of allowing that 
party to seek an order that the document or transcript be granted in camera treatment.  If 
that party wishes in camera treatment for the document or transcript, the party shall file 
an appropriate motion with the Administrative Law Judge within 5 days after it receives 
such notice.  Except where such an order is granted, all documents and transcripts shall 
be part of the public record.  Where in camera treatment is granted! a duplicate copy of 
such document or transcript with the confidential material deleted therefrom may be 
placed on the public record. 

11. If any party receives a discovery request in any investigation or in any other 
proceeding or matter that may require the disclosure of confidential material submitted by 
another party or third party~  the recipient of the discovery request shall promptly notify 
the submitter of receipt of such request.  Unless a shorter time is mandated by an order of 
a court, such notification shall be in writing and be received by the submitter at least 10 
business days before production, and shall include a copy of this Protective Order and a 
cover letter that will apprise the submitter of its rights hereunder.  Nothing herein shall be 
construed as requiring the recipient of the discovery request or anyone else covered by 
this Order to challenge or appeal any order requiring production of confidential material, 
to subject itself to any penalties for non-compliance with any such order, or to seek any 
relief from the Administrative Law Judge or the Commission.  The recipient shall not 
oppose the submitter's efforts to challenge the disclosure of confidential material.  In 
addition, nothing herein shall limit the applicability of Rule 4. 11 (e) of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice, 16 CFR 4. 1 1 (e), to discovery requests in another proceeding that are 
directed to the Commission. 

12. At the time that any consultant or other person retained to assist counsel in the 
preparation of this action concludes participation in the action, such person shall return to 
counsel all copies of documents or portions thereof designated confidential that are in the 
possession of such person, together with all notes, memoranda or other papers containing 
confidential information.  At the conclusion of this proceeding, including the exhaustion 
of judicial review, the parties shall return documents obtained in this action to their 
submitters, provided, however, that the Commission's obligation to return documents 
shall be governed by the provisions of Rule 4.12 of the Rules ofPractice, 16 CFR 4.12. 

13. The provisions of this Protective Order, insofar as they restrict the communication 
and use of confidential discovery material, shall, without written permission of the 
submitter or further order of the Commission, continue to be binding after the conclusion 
of this proceeding. 

4 

