UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill, Commissioner 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen, Commissioner 
Joshua D. Wright, Commissioner 
Terrell McSweeny, Commissioner 

COMMISSIONERS: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

In the Matter of 
 
Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, also 

d/b/a JERK.COM, and, 

                     
John Fanning,                                      

individually and as a member of 
Jerk, LLC. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
DOCKET NO. 9361 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

ORDER EXTENDING TIME TO RESPOND TO COMPLAINT COUNSEL’S  

MOTION FOR SUMMARY DECISION 

Commission Rule 3.24(a)(2), 16 C.F.R. § 3.24(a)(2), gives parties fourteen days after 

 
On October 2, 2014, Respondent John Fanning (“Fanning”) filed a Motion for Extension 
of Time requesting an additional thirty days to file his response opposing Complaint Counsel’s 
Motion for Summary Decision in this proceeding.  Complaint Counsel opposes the Motion, but, 
in the alternative, proposes an extension of fourteen days.  For the reasons below, the 
Commission grants Mr. Fanning an additional twenty-one days to file his response. 
 
 
service of a motion for summary decision to file opposing affidavits with the Commission.  The 
time periods prescribed by the Commission Rules of Practice ordinarily should afford parties to 
FTC proceedings sufficient time to file submissions of sufficient quality and detail to aid in the 
preparation of Commission opinions and orders.  Absent a Commission order granting an 
extension of time to Mr. Fanning, his response would be due on October 14. 
 
 
Respondent represents that he needs additional time due to a combination of the voluminous 
nature of the case record, the need to separate and address materials directed at Jerk, LLC or Mr. 
Fanning, and the effect of the compressed schedule on his counsel (Motion ¶¶ 2, 5).  He asserts 
that it would be unfair and prejudicial to require him to respond without a reasonable extension 
in the deadline (Motion ¶ 4). 
 

Respondent has requested that the time to file an opposition be extended by thirty days.  

 

1 

In opposing Respondent Fanning’s motion, Complaint Counsel has also requested an 

 
Under these circumstances, the Commission is willing to grant Mr. Fanning additional 
time to prepare his response.  Respondent’s request for a thirty-day extension, however, would 
more than triple the standard time for a response.  In view of the volume of material appended to 
Complaint Counsel’s filing, we too agree that some additional time to respond is warranted.  
Moreover, the other respondent in this proceeding, Jerk LLC, was not served with Complaint 
Counsel’s Motion until October 7.  Extending the response deadline for each respondent until 
November 4 will give both Respondents at least 28 days to respond.     
 
 
additional six days to reply. Because the nature of Respondent’s opposition filing is unknown, 
however, that request is premature. We therefore decline Complaint Counsel’s request at this 
time, without prejudice.  
 
 
IT IS ORDERED THAT Respondents John Fanning and Jerk, LLC may file their 
responses to Complaint Counsel’s Motion for Summary Decision on or before Tuesday, 
November 4, 2014. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ISSUED: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Janice Podoll Frankle 
Acting Secretary 

 
 
 

 
 
 

By the Commission. 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

October 9, 2014 

 

2 

