OR,GINAL 

PUBLIC 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE tAW JUDGES 

In the Matter of 

Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, 

also d/b/a JERK.COM, and 

John Fanning, individually and as a member of 
Jerk, LLC, 

Respondents. 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

DOCKET NO. 9361 

ORDER GRANTING CONSENT MOTION OF RESPONDENT FANNING 

FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWERS TO SECOND .REQUEST  FOR ADMISSIONS 

A,.~D TO SERVE ANSWERS LATE 

T 
Aoo 

On Deceniber9, 2014,. R~spondent John Fanning ("'Fanning") filed an Assented to 

Motion fot Leave to Amend Answers to Second Request for Admissions and to Serve Answers 
Late ("Motion").  Federal Trad.e Commission ("FTC") Complaint Counsel has not responded to 
the Motion.  As set forth below, the Motion is GRANTED. 

II. 

Fanning states that he was served with Complaint Counsel's second request for 

admissions ("RF As"} 011 November 4, 2014, but that he failed to submit his responses during the 
1 0-day response period allowed by FTC Rule of Practice 3.32(b) because of "extensive activity 
in the case," including Fanning's filing of his opposition to the pending Motion for Summary 
Decision.  Fanning further states that he was unable to '"keep track"  of extensive emails and 
filings occurring d1mng the response period.  Fanning further states that he first realized the 
oversight of failing -to respond to the RFAs on November 25, 2014, when Complaint Counsel 
filed a motion to supplement its Motion for Summary Decision, seeking to add facts derived 
from the constructive admissions resulting from Fanning's failure to respond.  By<>peration of 
Rule 3.32(b), Fanning's failure to respond to the RFAs resulted m the subject matter of the RFAs 
being deemed a¢rntted.  16 C F.R. § 3 32(b)  (''The matter is admitted unless, within ten (1 0) 
days after service of the request, ... the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the 
party requesting the admission, with a copy fUed with the Secretary, a sworn written answer or 
objection addressed to  the matter."). 

Fanning asserts that upon realizing the failure, his co_Wlsel took immediate steps to 
complete answers to Complaint Counsel's RF As, and served them on December 4, 2014. 
Fanning arg11es that no prejudice will result to Complaint Counsel by allowing the late filing, 
while Fanning will be prejudiced if he is bound by the constructive admissions. 

III. 

The title ofFanning's Motion states that the Motion is "assented to" and Complaint 

Counsel h.as not filed any opposition to the Motion.  FTC Rule of Practice 3.22(d) provides that; 
"Within 10 days after service of any written motion •.. th.e opposing party shall answer or shall 
be deemed to have consented to the granting of the relief asked for in the motion.''  16 C.F .R. § 
3.22(d).  In addition, 3.32(c) authorizes "withdrawal or amendment [of admissions] wheR the 
presentation of the merits of the pro.ceeding will be subserved thereby and the party who 
obtained the admission fails to satisfY the Administrative Law Judge that withdrawal or 
~endment will prejudice him in maintaining his action or defense on the merits." 16 C.F.R. § 
3,32(c). 

Based on the foregoing, Fanning's Motion is GRANTED, and it is hereby ORDERED 
that Respondent Fanning' s Responses to Complaint Counsel Second Requests for Admissions, 
served on Complaint-Counsel on December 4, 2014, and attached to the Motion as Exhibit B, 
shall, upon filing with the Office of the Secretary as required under Rule 3.32(b), operate as. a 
withdrawal and amendment of any prior admissions ofFanning, purs.:p:ant to Rule ~.32(c). 

ORDERED; 

Date:  December 23, 2014 

:J) lYI  ~,.,~dt-~ 

D. M1chael Chappell 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 

2 

