Aquaforest TIFF Junction  Evaluation 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES 

12 22 2014

In the Matter of 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
_________________________________) 

John Fanning, individually and as a member of 
Jerk, LLC, 

Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, 
also d/b/a JERK. COM, and 

DOCKET NO. 9361 

Respondents. 

ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE 

MOTION OF RESPONDENT JERK, LLC TO EXTEND TIME 

TO ANSWER REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS 

I. 

On December 15, 2014, Respondent Jerk, LLC ("Jerk") filed a Motion to Extend 

Time to Answer Complaint Counsel's Second Request for Admissions ("Motion"). 
Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") Complaint Counsel filed an opposition to the Motion 
on December 16, 2014 ("Opposition").  After reviewing the Motion, Opposition, and 
exhibits submitted therewith, and as further explained below, the Motion is DENIED 
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 

II. 

Requests for Admissions are authorized pursuant to FTC Rule of Practice 3.32,  16 

C.F.R.  ยง 3.32.  Rule 3.32(b) provides that the subject matter of a request is deemed 
"admitted unless, within ten (1 0)  days after service of the request, or within such shorter 
or longer time as the Administrative Law Judge may allow, the party to whom the request 
is directed serves upon the party requesting the admission, ... a sworn written answer or 
objection addressed to the matter."  16 C.F.R.  ยง 3.32(b).  The Rule further provides: 

Any matter admitted under this rule is conclusively established unless the 
Administrative Law Judge on motion permits withdrawal or amendment 
of the admission.  The Administrative Law Judge may permit withdrawal 
or amendment when the presentation of the merits of the proceeding will 
be subserved thereby and the party who obtained the admission fails to 

Aquaforest TIFF Junction  Evaluation 

satisfy the Administrative Law Judge that withdrawal or amendment will 
prejudice him in maintaining his action or defense on the merits. 

16 C.F.R.  ยง 3.32(c). 

According to the submissions of the parties, Complaint Counsel served a Second 
Request for Admissions (hereafter, "RFAs") on Jerk on November 4, 2014, by emailing 
the RF As to Jerk' s most recent counsel and by mailing a copy to Jerk' s registered agent, 
which methods had been authorized by Order dated November 3, 2014.  Jerk does not 
dispute that it was properly served with the RF As and admits that it failed to respond 
within the ten days permitted by Rule 3.32(b).  Jerk seeks an order permitting it to file its 
responses at this time. 

III. 

Jerk states that at the time the RF As were served, Jerk was not represented by 

counsel, because its counsel of record had withdrawn.  According to the Motion, Jerk has 
now obtained new counsel, who is attempting to defend this matter on the merits, 
including by filing a motion with the Commission on December 9,  2014, to allow Jerk to 
respond to the pending Motion for Summary Decision, and to reschedule the evidentiary 
hearing.  Jerk argues that it is manifestly prejudicial to Jerk to bind it to constructive 
admissions ofthe factual  allegations of the Complaint and oflegalliability, instead of 
allowing Jerk to respond on the merits, and that Complaint Counsel will not be unduly 
prejudiced by allowing Jerk to respond to the RFAs.  Jerk states that it "regrets any 
delays or inconvenience that its failure to respond may have occasioned" and contends 
that it is preferable to have disputes resolved on the merits, rather than by default, which 
would be the effect of allowing Jerk' s constructive admissions to stand.  Motion at 2.  In 
addition, Jerk argues, it is in the interests of justice and administrative economy to allow 
Jerk a "limited amount of time" to respond.  Motion at 2. 

Complaint Counsel states that Jerk should be bound by its "deemed admissions," 
i.e., the constructive admissions resulting from the operation ofRule 3.32(b).  Complaint 
Counsel asserts that Jerk has not participated in this action for five months, has only 
recently obtained new counsel, and has failed to  comply with existing discovery orders. 
See Order of August 15, 2014 (ordering Jerk to produce a corporate designee in response 
to Complaint Counsel ' s Rule 3.33(c)(l) deposition notice to Jerk); Order ofNovember 
25, 2014 (granting Complaint Counsel ' s Motion to  Compel Jerk to respond to 
outstanding intelTogatories and document requests).  Complaint Counsel further asserts 
that Jerk has provided no justification for its delay in responding to the request for 
admissions. 

Complaint Counsel argues, first, that Jerk has not demonstrated, as  required for 

withdrawal or amendment of admissions under Rule 3 .32( c), that "the merits of the action 
will be subserved" by allowing Jerk to provide answers to the request for admissions. 
Specifically, Complaint Counsel asserts that Jerk admits that it plans to use answers to 
admissions to oppose the pending Motion for Summary Decision and will rely on such 

2 

Aquaforest TIFF Junction  Evaluation 

answers, including denials of requested admissions, to conduct new discovery, even 
though the deadline for completing fact discovery has passed.  Complaint Counsel 
contends that this proceeding will "become subsumed by countless requests to excuse 
Jerk's delinquencies" on other outstanding discovery requests with which Jerk has not 
complied, including interrogatories and a deposition subpoena, and allow a discovery 
"do-over," which will undermine the interest in commencing the hearing in accordance 
with the 5 months allowed by the Rules.  Opposition at 5.  See  16 C.F.R.  ยง 3.11(b)(4) 
("Unless a different date is determined by the Commission, the date of the evidentiary 
hearing shall be 5 months from the date ofthe administrative complaint ... "). 
Complaint Counsel next argues that it will be prejudiced by allowing Respondent to 
answer the requests for admissions at this point in the proceedings, because this will 
allow Jerk to deny the requests and will also deprive Complaint Counsel of the ability to 
obtain discovery to counter the denials, because the discovery deadline has passed and 
the evidentiary hearing is scheduled for January 27, 2015.  At the same time, Complaint 
Counsel notes, Jerk has effectively shielded itself from discovery, by failing to provide 
discovery during the discovery period. 

IV. 

Although Jerk asserts that it now has new counsel, Jerk fails to explain the 

reasons for its delay in retaining new counsel, or why such delay should be excused.  Jerk 
also fails to even acknowledge, much less justify, its failure to comply with existing 
discovery orders.  Accordingly, the relief requested by Jerk will not be granted at this 
time.  Jerk may, no later than December 29, 2014,  renew its motion, and the request for 
relief will be reconsidered upon showing, in addition to any other requirements under 
3.32(c): (1) an explanation for the delay in Jerk's obtaining new counsel, including all 
reasons therefor; and (2)  an offer and detailed plan to promptly comply with the orders of 
August 15  and November 25, 2014.  Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED WITHOUT 
PREJUDICE. 

ORDERED: 

Date:  December 22, 2014 

:-r:::, Yv\  (~ 

D.  Michael Chappel 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 

3 

