Aquaforest TIFF Junction Evaluation 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSIO 
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES 

12 15 2014

In the matter of 

Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, 

·also d/b/a JERK. COM, and 

John Fanning, individually and as a 

member of Jerk, LLC, 

Respondents. 

} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 

DocketQ~~~INAL 

MOTION OF RESPONDENT JERK, LLC, TO EXTEND TIME 

TO ANSWER COMPLAINTCOUNSEL'S SECOND REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS 

Respondent Jerk, LLC (hereinafter "Jerk") hereby moves, pursuant to Ru1es 3.32(b) and 

(c) and the Commission's Order of December 5, 2014, that this Honorable Court extend the time 

for Jerk to answer Complaint Counsel's Second Request for Admissions to 5:00 P.M. Eastern 

Time, December 19, 2014, and therefore to relieve Jerk from its admissions due to its failure to 

respond in a timely fashion.  As reasons therefor, Jerk states as follows. 

At the time the Request for Admissions (appended hereto as Exhibit A) was served, Jerk 

was unrepresented by counselin this matter.  Jerk recognizes the difficulties presented by the 

withdrawal of its counsel, which this Court has previously addressed.  Undersigned counsel is 

attempting to bring Jerk into compliance with its obligations under the Rules.  As stated in Jerk's 

recent Motion addressed to the Commission, it seeks an opportunity to defend this matter on the 

merits.  At this time, inquiries are being made in order to be able to respond fully to the Request 

for Admissions within a short time frame.  Jerk requests five business days to file and serve 

answers to the Request for Admissions.  At present, Jerk is deemed to have conclusively 

admitted all of the factual allegations in the Complaint, as well as legal liability for having 

1 

Aquaforest TIFF Junction  Evaluation 

PUBLIC 

violated Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act.  The undue prejudice from these 

admissions is manifest.  In contrast, Complaint Counsel will not be prejudiced unduly by the late 

answers; Jerk seeks only an opportunity to address on the merits those items it does not admit, 

rather than simply losing by default.  Particularly pending the Commission's action on Jerk's 

Motion to Extend Time to Respond to Motion for Summary Decision and to Reschedule 

Evidentiary Hearing, it is in the interests of justice and administrative economy to allow Jerk a 

limited amount oftime to respond to the Request for Admissions. 

Jerk regrets any delays or inconvenience that its failure to respond may have occasioned. 

However, there is a strong preference for having disputes resolved on the merits rather than by 

default.  See, e.g.  Coon v.  Grenier, 867 F.2d 73, 76 (1st Cir.  1989) ("actions should ordinarily be 

resolved on their merits");  United States v.  One Parcel of Real Property, 763 F.2d 181, 183 (5th 

Cir.  1985) (noting that "modem federal practice favors trial on the merits" and ordering removal 

of default where failure to file timely oppositions was not willful and government was not 

prejudiced); Feliciano v.  Reliant Tool Co.,  Ltd., 691  F.2d 653, 656 (3d Cir.  1982) ("Any doubt 

should be resolved in favor of the petition to set aside the [default] judgment so that cases may 

be decided on their merits").  Jerk understands the Commission's policy in favor ofresolving 

administrative matters quickly, and wishes to address this matter as expeditiously as possible. 

2 

Aquaforest TIFF Junction  Evaluation 

PUBLIC 

WHEREFORE, Jerk respectfully requests that tills Honorable Court extend the time for 

Jerk to file and serve responses to Complaint Counsel's Second Request for Admissions to 5:00 

P.M. Eastern Time on December 19,2014, and permit Jerk to withdraw the admissions entered 

on its behalf by its failure to respond so long as it responds by that time. 

Respectfully submitted, 

JERK, LLC, 
By its attorneys, 

?t~~ 

David Duncan (Mass. BBO #546121) 
David A.  Russcol (Mass. BBO #670768) 
Zalkind Duncan &  Bernstein LLP 
65A Atlantic Ave. 
Boston, MA 02110 
Phone: (617) 742-6020 
Fax: (617) 742-3269 
dduncan@zalkindlaw.com 
drusscol@zalkindlaw.com 

Dated: December 12,2014 

3 

Aquaforest TIFF Junction  Evaluation 

PUBLIC 

CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE 

In accordance with Additional Provision 4 of the Scheduling Order, I, David A. Russcol, 

hereby certify that, on December 12, 2014, I communicated with Sarah Schroeder, Complaint 
Counsel, regarding this Motion in an effort in good faith to resolve or narrow the issues in 
dispute and was unsuccessful in doing so.  Ms. Schroeder indicated that Complaint Counsel did 
not assent to the relief sought. 

o!l;;;?~ 

David A.  Russcol 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 

I, David A. Russcol, hereby certifY that I have, on December 12, 2014, caused a copy of 
the foregoing document, with supporting declaration and proposed order, tobe served by email 
on Complaint Counsel and counsel for Respondent John Fanning, and that I have filed true and 
correct copies thereof electronically with the Secretary of the Commission and the Office of the 
Chief Administrative Law Judge.  In addition, I have this day caused an original and a paper 
copy to be delivered by Federal Express to Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room H-172, Washington, D.C., 20580. 

David A.  Russcol 

4 

