UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

 
 

 

COMMISSIONERS: 
 
 
 
 
 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright  
Terrell McSweeny 

In the Matter of 
 
Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, 
also d/b/a JERK.COM, and, 
                     
John Fanning,                                      

individually and as a member of 
Jerk, LLC. 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
DOCKET NO. 9361 
 
 
 
 
 

FINAL ORDER 

The Commission has heard this matter upon the Motion For Summary Decision filed by 
Complaint Counsel, and upon the briefs filed in support thereof and in opposition thereto.  For 
the reasons stated in the accompanying Opinion of the Commission, the Commission has 
determined to grant the Motion For Summary Decision.  Accordingly, 

 
IT IS ORDERED that the following Order to cease and desist be, and it  

 
hereby is, entered: 
 

ORDER 

 

DEFINITIONS 

1. 

For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: 

 
 
 
liability company, its successors and assigns; and John Fanning, individually and as a member of 
the company. 
 

Unless otherwise specified, “respondents” shall mean Jerk, LLC, a limited 

2. 

“Customer information” shall mean information relating to consumers who 
purchased products or services from Jerk, LLC, including, but not limited to, a consumer’s 
name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, Social Security number, other identifying 
information, billing information, or any other data that enables access to a customer’s account 
(including a credit or debit card number, bank account, or other financial account). 

 

 

I. 

II. 

 

 

 

 
from: 
 

 

 

 

3. 

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or 
about an individual consumer including, but not limited to:  (a) a first and last name; (b) a home 
or other physical address, such as a name of a street, city or town; (c) an e-mail address or other 
online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name; (d) a 
telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) a driver’s license number or other 
government-issued identification number; (g) a bank account, debit card, or credit card account 
number; or (h) photographs, videos, or audio files that contain an individual’s image or voice. 
 
 

PROHIBITION ON MISREPRESENTING MEMBERSHIP BENEFITS  

AND THE SOURCE OF CONTENT ON A WEBSITE 

IT IS ORDERED that respondents and their officers, agents, representatives, and 

employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device in 
connection with the marketing, promoting, or offering for sale of any good or service, shall not 
misrepresent, or assist others in misrepresenting, in any manner, expressly or by implication: 

 
A. 

the source of any content on a website, including personal information; or 

B. 

the benefits of joining any service. 

DISPOSITION OF CUSTOMER AND PERSONAL INFORMATION 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents are permanently restrained and enjoined 

A. 

B. 

C. 

Disclosing, using, selling, or benefitting from customer information that any 
respondent obtained prior to entry of this Order in connection with the operation 
of Jerk, LLC; 

Disclosing, using, selling, or benefitting from personal information that any 
respondent obtained prior to entry of this Order in connection with the operation 
of Jerk, LLC; and 

Failing to dispose of personal information and customer information in all forms 
in their possession, custody, or control that any respondent obtained prior to entry 
of this Order in connection with the operation of Jerk, LLC, within thirty (30) 
days after entry of this Order. 

Provided, however, that information need not be disposed of, and may be disclosed, to 

the extent requested by a government agency or required by law, regulation, or court order. 
 

 

 

2 

III.  

MONITORING PROVISIONS 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall, for five (5) years after the last 
date of dissemination of any representation covered by this order, maintain and upon request 
make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: 
 

A. 

All advertisements and promotional materials containing any representation 
covered by this order;  

B. 

C. 

D. 

E. 

All materials that were relied upon in disseminating any representation covered 
by this order; 

Complaints or inquiries relating to any website or other online service, and any 
responses to those complaints or inquiries; 

Documents that are sufficient to demonstrate compliance with each provision of 
this order; and 

Documents that contradict, qualify, or call into question any respondent’s 
compliance with this order. 

IV. 

ORDER ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents shall deliver a copy of this order to all 

current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future 
employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities with respect to the subject matter 
of this order, and shall secure from each such person a signed and dated statement 
acknowledging receipt of the order.  Respondents shall deliver this order to current personnel 
within thirty (30) days after the date of service of this order, and to future personnel within thirty 
(30) days after the person assumes such position or responsibilities. 
 

COMPLIANCE MONITORING – JERK, LLC 

V. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent Jerk, LLC, and its successors and 

assigns, shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any change in the 
corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations arising under this order, including but not 
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would result in the 
emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or 
affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the proposed filing of a 
bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or address.  Provided, however, that, with 
respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which respondents learn less than thirty 
(30) days prior to the date such action is to take place, respondents shall notify the Commission 

 

3 

as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.  Unless otherwise directed by a 
representative of the Commission in writing, all notices required by this Part shall be emailed to 
Debrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:  Associate 
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580.  The subject line must begin:  In re Jerk, 
LLC. 
 

COMPLIANCE MONITORING – JOHN FANNING 

VI. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent John Fanning, for a period of ten (10) 

years after the date of issuance of this order, shall notify the Commission of the discontinuance 
of his current business or employment, or of his affiliation with any new business or 
employment.  The notice shall include respondent’s new business address and telephone number 
and a description of the nature of the business or employment and his duties and responsibilities.  
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission in writing, all notices required 
by this Part shall be emailed to Debrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal 
Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade 
Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580.  The subject line must 
begin:  In re Jerk, LLC. 

 

VII. 

COMPLIANCE REPORTING 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondents, within sixty (60) days after the date of 
service of this order, shall each file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in writing, 
setting forth in detail the manner and form of their own compliance with this order.  Within ten 
(10) days of receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, they shall submit 
additional true and accurate written reports. 
 

VIII. 

ORDER TERMINATION 

This order will terminate on March 13, 2035, or twenty (20) years from the most recent 
date that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without 
an accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever 
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of: 
 

A.  Any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years; 

B.  This order's application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such 

complaint; and   
 

C.  This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this Part. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that the 
respondent did not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not 
appealed or upheld on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the 
complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such 
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date 
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal. 
 
 
 
 

By the Commission. 

[SEAL] 
ISSUED:  March 13, 2015  

 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

 

5 

