UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

_______________________________________________ 
 
In the Matter of  
 
Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, 
 
 
 
John Fanning, 
) 
) 
 
 
)  
________________________________________________) 

also d/b/a JERK.COM, and  
 
 
 

individually and as a member of 
Jerk, LLC. 

 
 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 
 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Docket No. 9361 

 

 

 

ORDER DENYING RESPONDENTS’ MOTION TO  
STAY FINAL ORDER PENDING JUDICIAL REVIEW 

Respondent John Fanning has applied for a stay of the Commission’s Final Order, 

 
 
pending review by the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.  Respondent Jerk, 
LLC (“Jerk”) has filed an application “adopt[ing] and incorporat[ing]” Mr. Fanning’s 
application.  Complaint Counsel oppose the requests for stay.  For the reasons discussed below, 
Respondents have not shown that a stay is warranted and we deny their applications.1   
 

Background 

 
 
From 2009 to 2013, Respondents operated Jerk.com, a social media website that invited 
users to create profiles for other people and rate each as a “jerk” or “not a jerk.”  Op. 1, 2.  The 
site encouraged users to post photos of their friends and acquaintances with comments and 
reviews about them.  Op. 9.  Jerk earned revenues from selling “memberships” promising 
“additional paid premium features,” including the ability to dispute information posted on the 
site.  Op. 2.  The website contained more than 80 million unique profiles, including several 
million with pictures of children.  Op. 2, 27, 33.  The Commission and state law enforcement 
agencies received hundreds of complaints about Jerk.com from consumers who reported that 
they spent time and money attempting to get their profiles removed.  Op. 33-34.  
 

                                                 
1 The Commission’s opinion in this matter is available at  
https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/cases/150325jerkopinion 0.pdf.  The order is available at  
https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/cases/150325jerkorder.pdf. 

 

1 

 
In 2014, the Commission issued a two-count administrative complaint alleging that Jerk 
and its member and manager, John Fanning, engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation 
of Section 5(a) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a).  Count I alleged that Respondents falsely 
represented that the names, photographs, and other content that appeared on the website were 
posted by users and reflected users’ views of the profiled persons, when in fact Respondents 
harvested nearly all of the content from Facebook.  Count II alleged that Respondents falsely 
represented that consumers who purchased a $30 “standard membership” would receive benefits, 
including the ability to dispute information posted on Jerk.com about them.  But customers who 
purchased the memberships received no benefits in return. 
 

On March 13, 2015, we granted summary decision to Complaint Counsel against both 

Respondents on both counts.2  With regard to Count I, we held that Jerk’s statements on its 
website constitute an implied representation that Jerk.com content, including names and 
photographs, was created by Jerk users and reflected their views of the profiled individuals.  
Respondents did not dispute that Jerk itself had taken the “vast majority” of the content from 
Facebook and posted it on Jerk.com.  Respondents also offered nothing to rebut evidence that 
consumers sought removal of their profiles and purchased memberships because of the 
“embarrass[ment]” and “alarm[]” that people they knew had created Jerk.com profiles about 
them.  Op. 14, 16.  Thus, Complaint Counsel sustained their burden to demonstrate that 
Respondents’ representations about the source of the content on the website were both false and 
material.   

 
Respondents barely responded to Complaint Counsel’s motion for summary decision on 

Count II.  Complaint Counsel produced testimony by consumers (confirmed by an FTC 
investigator) who bought Jerk.com memberships but were unable to dispute or remove 
information from their profiles.  Respondents did not rebut or address any of that evidence.  They 
offered instead only John Fanning’s vague and nonresponsive declaration, which stated that “[a]s 
far as [he was] aware,” Jerk “remove[d] content from Jerk.com whenever it was obligated to do 
so” and “would refund money to users who claimed they had paid but had not received 
membership services.”  Op. 20-21.  

 
Finally, we found beyond genuine dispute Mr. Fanning’s individual liability for Jerk’s 
violations.  He instructed programmers to create Jerk.com profiles by taking information from 
Facebook, advocated a business model in which Jerk charged consumers for “dispute resolution” 
services, and defended these decisions to investors and business partners.  Op. 26-28. 
Mr. Fanning’s declaration asserted that he was merely an “advisor” to Jerk, Op. 24, but because 
the declaration did not provide “any evidence to support his bare assertions,” we found it did not 
create a genuine factual dispute.  Op. 28.   
 

                                                 
2 Rule 3.24 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice permits the Commission to issue summary decision 
when it “determines that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact regarding liability or relief.”  16 
C.F.R. § 3.24(a)(2); see Polygram Holdings, Inc., 2002 WL 31433923, at *1 (FTC Feb. 26, 2002) (Rule 
3.24(a)(2) is “virtually identical” to the summary judgment provisions in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 
56).   

 

2 

As a remedy, Paragraph I of the Final Order bars Respondents, “in connection with the 

 
marketing, promoting, or offering for sale of any good or service,” from misrepresenting the 
source of any content on a website or the benefits of joining any service.  Paragraph II forbids 
Respondents from disclosing, using, selling, or benefitting from Jerk’s customer information or 
consumers’ personal information obtained in connection with Respondents’ operation of Jerk.  
To ensure that Respondents do not use this information for future deceptive claims, Paragraph II 
also requires Respondents to dispose of the information within 30 days of the effective date of 
the Final Order.  Paragraphs III through VII contain various recordkeeping, notification, and 
reporting requirements.   
 

Standard For A Stay 

Section 5(g) of the Federal Trade Commission Act provides that the Commission’s cease 

 
 
and desist orders (except divestiture orders) will take effect “upon the sixtieth day after such 
order is served,” unless “stayed, in whole or in part and subject to such conditions as may be 
appropriate, by . . . the Commission” or “an appropriate court of appeals of the United States.”  
15 U.S.C. § 45(g)(2).  Respondents and Respondents’ counsel were served with the Order and 
Final Opinion of the Commission on March 30, 2015.  Thus, absent a stay, the Final Order will 
become effective on May 29, 2015.  See 15 U.S.C. § 45(g)(2); 16 C.F.R. § 3.56(a).   
 
 
Under Commission Rule 3.56(c), an application for a stay must address the following 
four factors: (1) the likelihood of the applicant’s success on appeal; (2) whether the applicant 
will suffer irreparable harm absent a stay; (3) the degree of injury to other parties if a stay is 
granted; and (4) whether the stay is in the public interest.  See 16 C.F.R. § 3.56(c); In re 
McWane, Inc., 2014 WL 1630460, at *1 (FTC Apr. 11, 2014); In re Toys “R” Us, Inc., 126 
F.T.C. 695, 696 (1998).  The required likelihood of success is “inversely proportional to the 
amount of irreparable injury suffered absent the stay.”  In re North Texas Specialty Physicians, 
141 F.T.C. 456, 457-58 & n.2 (2006).  If the balance of the equities does not support a stay, the 
movant must make a higher showing of likely success on the merits.  In re North Carolina Board 
of Dental Examiners, 2012 WL 588756, at *1 (FTC Feb. 10, 2012).  Respondents have not 
satisfied any of the four factors. 
 

Likelihood of Success on Appeal 

 

claims are without merit. 

As to the first factor, Respondents are unlikely to succeed on appeal because their legal 

 
Respondents first contend that they were deprived of fair notice and “an opportunity to 
present their objections,” Fanning Mtn. to Stay 3, because the Commission found Respondents 
liable for implied misrepresentations whereas (according to Respondents) the Complaint and 
Complaint Counsel’s motion for summary decision predicated liability on a theory of express 
misrepresentations.  That claim misstates the record.  In fact, Count I of the Complaint alleged 
that “respondents represented, expressly or by implication, that content on Jerk . . . was created 
by Jerk users.”  Compl. ¶ 15 (emphasis added).  Consistent with that allegation of implied 
misrepresentation, Complaint Counsel’s motion for summary decision argued that Respondents 
had violated the FTC Act by making both express and implied misrepresentations about the 

 

3 

source of the content posted on Jerk.com.3  Respondents plainly had notice of the implied 
representation theory because their oppositions to Complaint Counsel’s motion for summary 
decision argued that “[n]othing contained in the homepage disclaimer constitutes a ‘claim’ about 
the source of the content, either express or implied, or could possibly be construed as an 
advertisement intended to lure users to the Jerk.com site.”4  Respondents’ notice theory is thus 
without merit. 
 

Respondents next assert that they cannot lawfully be held liable because their 

misrepresentations that the content on Jerk.com was created by users “could not possibly be 
construed as an advertisement.”  Fanning Mtn. to Stay 4-5.  As we explained in granting 
summary decision, however, the Commission’s authority to prevent deceptive practices is not 
limited to “advertising” or “promotional” claims; it applies to any type of commercial 
representation likely to deceive a reasonable consumer.  Op. 11-12, citing FTC v. AMG Servs., 
Inc., 29 F. Supp. 3d 1338, 1349-52 (D. Nev. 2014) (loan note disclosure); FTC v. Wyndham 
Worldwide Corp., 10 F. Supp. 3d 602, 626, 631 (D. N.J. 2014) (statements on website about 
privacy policy).  In any case, the representation that content was user-generated “drove traffic to 
the Jerk.com website” and “was indeed promotional.”  Op. 11-12.  This argument, too, is thus 
meritless.   

 
Respondents are also wrong to argue that the Commission improperly granted summary 
disposition because a “fact question” exists concerning whether they deceived consumers into 
purchasing Jerk.com memberships by claiming they would receive benefits, including the right 
to dispute information in their profiles.  Fanning Mtn. to Stay 6.  Beyond their bare assertion of a 
factual dispute, Respondents cite no actual evidence demonstrating one.  Nor did they cite any 
such evidence in their opposition to Complaint Counsel’s motion for summary decision.  Indeed, 
Jerk did not even address Count II in its brief in opposition, and Mr. Fanning addressed Count II 

                                                 
3 See Complaint Counsel’s Memorandum in Support of Motion for Summary Decision 20 (“Even if this 
representation were not disseminated through express statements, it would still be presumptively material 
because Respondents intended to convey it to consumers visiting Jerk.com.”); see also id. 7-8 (arguing 
that Respondents’ reposting of photographs from Facebook created an “implication” that Jerk.com’s 
content was user-generated); Complaint Counsel’s Reply to Respondent Jerk, LLC’s Opposition to 
Complaint Counsel’s Motion for Summary Decision 6 (“Here, it is beyond dispute that Jerk made the 
misrepresentation alleged in Count I through multiple explicit and clearly implied statements.”); id. at 9 
(“Because the representation alleged in Count I was conveyed through express and conspicuous implied 
statements, the Commission need not look to extrinsic evidence to unearth a deeper meaning beyond what 
is plain on its face.”).  
 
4 John Fanning’s Memorandum in Opposition to Complaint Counsel’s Motion for Summary Decision 9 
(emphasis added) (citing Kraft, Inc. v. FTC, 970 F.2d 311, 322 (7th Cir. 1992)); see also Jerk, LLC’s 
Memorandum in Opposition to Complaint Counsel’s Motion for Summary Decision 7, 10 (characterizing 
Complaint Counsel as arguing that (1) the Jerk website’s terms and conditions “implicitly represented that 
all profiles on jerk.com were created by jerk.com users,” and (2) Respondents’ misrepresentations were 
material because they were made “explicitly or implicitly but intentionally.” (emphasis added)).  Nor does 
Respondents’ notice theory have merit as to Count II, regarding which the Commission identified express 
statements that “represent exactly what the Complaint alleges.”  Op. 18-19. 

 

4 

only with a self-serving, conclusory declaration that did not rebut the testimonial and 
documentary evidence cited by Complaint Counsel.  See Op. 17-22.    

 

 
There is also no merit to Respondents’ claims concerning the injunctive provisions of the 
Final Order.  Paragraph I prohibits Respondents, “in connection with the marketing, promoting, 
or offering for sale of any good or service,” from misrepresenting (1) “the source of any content 
on a website, including personal information;” and (2) “the benefits of joining any service.”  
Respondents claim they have an “absolute right” under the First Amendment to publish 
information gathered from public sources and to engage in speech on social media.  Fanning 
Mtn. to Stay 7.  But Paragraph I of the Final Order does not apply to non-commercial speech 
and, even as to commercial speech, does not bar Respondents from disseminating information 
from public sources or engaging in truthful, non-misleading speech on social media.  See Op. 31, 
33, 36.  It merely prohibits misleading commercial speech, which is not protected by the First 
Amendment.  See Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Pub. Serv. Comm’n of New York, 447 
U.S. 557, 566 (1980) (“For commercial speech to come within [the First Amendment], it at least 
must concern lawful activity and not be misleading.”); see also In re R.M.J., 455 U.S. 191, 203 
(1982) (“Misleading advertising may be prohibited entirely.”).  The Order’s ban on misleading 
commercial speech “merely requires Respondents to follow the law,” and is tailored to apply to 
the types of “speech that ha[ve] been found to be deceptive.”  Daniel Chapter One, 149 F.T.C. at 
1598-99.  Although Paragraph I prohibits deception concerning websites and services other than 
Jerk.com, “the Commission is not limited to prohibiting the illegal practice in the precise form in 
which it is found to have existed in the past. . . . [I]t must be allowed effectively to close all roads 
to the prohibited goal . . . .”  FTC v. Ruberoid Co., 343 U.S. 470, 473 (1952).  There is thus no 
basis for Respondents’ charge that the Final Order is an infringement of their First Amendment 
rights.   
 
Finally, Respondents object to the monitoring and recordkeeping provisions in the Final 
Order.  Fanning Mtn. to Stay 7-8.  Respondents assert that these provisions are “punitive and not 
related to the finding of liability based solely on the finding of an implied representation 
concerning [the] source of website content.”  Fanning Mtn. to Stay 7.  That is incorrect.  To 
begin with, the remedial provisions are not “solely” based on Jerk’s misrepresentations about the 
source of website content.  Respondents also deceived consumers into paying “membership” fees 
based on false representations to consumers that they could remove or modify their Jerk.com 
profiles, as alleged in Count II.  Moreover, all of these violations were knowing, deliberate, and 
serious, and such practices could be easily repeated in connection with other web-based services.  
See Op. 34 & n.41.  The Order’s monitoring and recordkeeping requirements therefore bear a 
“reasonable relation to the unlawful practices found to exist,” FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 
380 U.S. 374, 394-95 (1965), because they are reasonably designed to ensure that Mr. Fanning 
and Jerk do not commit similar violations in the future.  Federal courts routinely uphold similar 
monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in deception cases.  See, e.g., Dep’t of Justice v. 
Daniel Chapter One, --- F. Supp. 3d ----, 2015 WL 1502137, at *7 (D.D.C. Mar. 31, 2015); FTC 
v. Think Achievement Corp., 144 F. Supp. 2d 1013, 1018 (N.D. Ind. 2000). 

 

 

 

 

5 

In sum, Respondents have identified no plausible appellate challenge to the 

Commission’s order.  That failure is a sufficient basis for denying their stay requests.  In any 
event, for the reasons discussed below, Respondents do not satisfy the remaining stay factors 
either.   
 

Irreparable Injury 

 
Respondents bear the burden of demonstrating irreparable injury that is “both substantial 
 
and likely to occur absent the stay.”  North Texas, 141 F.T.C. at 460.  “Simple assertions of harm 
or conclusory statements based on unsupported assumptions will not suffice.”  In re California 
Dental Ass’n, 1996 FTC LEXIS 277, at *6 (May 22, 1996).  Respondents have not met this 
burden.5       
 

Mr. Fanning’s principal claim of harm is that the Commission was motivated to proceed 

against him and Jerk.com because it disliked the website’s content and that the allegedly 
improper motivation somehow deprives him of First Amendment rights.  Fanning Mtn. to Stay at 
10.  The claim does not address any actual effect on Mr. Fanning of the Final Order and does not 
identify any harm that would be relieved if the Final Order were stayed.  It is also wrong.  Our 
opinion makes clear that the Commission has not targeted the content of Jerk.com profiles, and 
the Final Order does not restrict such content.  Mr. Fanning remains free to create websites that 
“provide[] a platform to exchange opinions in the free-flow of human relationships,” Fanning 
Mtn. to Stay at 10, and the Final Order does not restrict any speech protected by the First 
Amendment.  The Final Order does prohibit Mr. Fanning, “in connection with the marketing, 
promoting, or offering for sale of any good or service,” from making misrepresentations about 
the source of website contents and the benefits of website membership.  As explained above, the 
First Amendment does not protect such misrepresentations, and Mr. Fanning thus can suffer no 
cognizable harm from an order restricting them.  See Op. 30-31.6 
 
 
Mr. Fanning also asserts that the monitoring and compliance reporting provisions will 
“affect my livelihood[,] . . . will infringe upon my privacy rights, will potentially infringe upon 
the privacy rights of my clients, and will contravene certain non-disclosure agreements.”  
Declaration of John Fanning in Support of Motion to Stay ¶ 6.  But Mr. Fanning provides no 
facts to support these bare allegations, let alone to demonstrate irreparable harm.  A party cannot 
establish irreparable harm simply by claiming that compliance monitoring will reveal sensitive or 
confidential information.  The FTC Act, as well as the Commission’s Rules of Practice, provide 
Mr. Fanning with ample protection for any sensitive information that his documents might 
contain.  See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. § 57b-2; 16 C.F.R. § 4.10. 
 

                                                 
5 Although Jerk has joined Mr. Fanning’s motion to stay, his motion only claims that Mr. Fanning will 
suffer irreparable harm, and it thus does not support any claim of injury against Jerk itself. 
6 Mr. Fanning incorrectly claims that the Final Order prohibits him from making true statements.  
Declaration of John Fanning in Support of Motion to Stay ¶ 5.  As discussed, the Order prohibits only 
commercial misrepresentations. 
 

 

6 

 
Finally, Mr. Fanning objects to the Final Order’s requirement that, for the next ten years, 
he notify the Commission when becoming affiliated with a new business or employment or when 
discontinuing any such affiliation.  Mr. Fanning asserts that this reporting requirement is “unduly 
burdensome, as I conduct business with a large number of companies on a regular basis.”  
Fanning Decl. ¶ 7.  But Mr. Fanning fails to explain how reporting even a large number of 
business affiliations could cause him “irreparable harm,” especially given the protections offered 
by the FTC Act and Rules of Practice for commercially sensitive information.     
 
 
found to violate the law through deception, and Mr. Fanning is no exception.  But he has 
provided no concrete facts showing that the Final Order will cause irreparable harm.   
 

Of course, equitable relief will always impose at least incidental burdens on a person 

 

Degree of Injury to Other Parties and the Public Interest 

The Final Order’s prohibitions on misrepresentation, restrictions on the use of 

The remaining stay factors concern whether the stay would harm other parties and 

 
 
whether it is in the public interest.  The FTC considers these factors together because Complaint 
Counsel are responsible for representing the public interest by enforcing the law.  Daniel 
Chapter One, 149 F.T.C. at 1600; California Dental, 1996 FTC LEXIS 277, at *8.  We conclude 
that granting Respondents a stay would risk harm to consumers and therefore is not in the public 
interest.   
 
 
consumers’ personal data, and required monitoring and recordkeeping measures are necessary to 
protect consumers.  Respondents have injured numerous consumers by (1) creating Jerk.com 
profiles using information derived from Facebook while passing off such profiles as if they were 
created by actual Jerk.com users; and (2) offering profiled persons the right to dispute their 
profiles for a fee and then failing to honor that commitment.  See Op. 33-34.  These practices 
triggered hundreds of complaints with the Commission and state law enforcement agencies.  Id. 
13, 34 & n.15.  Respondents’ misrepresentations were knowing, and their violations of the FTC 
Act were serious, deliberate, and capable of repetition.  See id. 34.   
 

Mr. Fanning argues that a stay creates “no possible risk of harm” because Jerk.com is 

“not currently operating.”  Fanning Mtn. to Stay 12.  But the risks to consumers continue even if 
Jerk.com does not.7  As we noted in our Opinion, Respondents have a history of making similar 
misrepresentations and transferring consumers’ personal data across various websites.  See Op. 
34 (“When Respondents lost the Jerk.com domain name they moved the content to Jerk.org and 
continued making the same misrepresentations. . . . Similarly, Respondents used automatically 
generated profiles on the reper.com website when they began the next iteration of their business 
in 2010.”).  Such practices may continue unless the Final Order becomes effective.  Issuing a 
stay would therefore disserve the public interest.   
 

 

                                                 
7 Although Mr. Fanning claims that Jerk.com is inoperative, Complaint Counsel note that, as of May 1, 
2015, Jerk.com remains an active website.   
 

 

7 

 

Conclusion 

Having considered the factors set forth in Commission Rule 3.56(c), we conclude that 

 
 
John Fanning and Jerk, LLC have not met their burden for showing that a stay of the Final Order 
pending judicial review is warranted.  Accordingly, 
 

IT IS ORDERED THAT Respondents’ Motions to Stay Enforcement of the 

Commission’s Order Pending Review by the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit 
are DENIED. 
 

By the Commission. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
SEAL: 
ISSUED:  May 28, 2015 
  

 

 

 

 

Donald S. Clark 
Secretary 

 

8 

