UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

OFFICE OF ADMI!';ISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES 

PUBLIC 

In the Matter of 

Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, 
also d/b/a JERK. COM, and 

John Fanning, individually and as a member of 
Jerk, LLC, 

Respondents. 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

DOCKET NO.  9361 

ORDER ON MOTION OF RESPONDENT JERK, LLC 

TO EXTEND TIMET() ANSWERCOMPLAINT COUNSEL'S 

SECOND REQUEST FOR ADMISSiCNS 

I. 

On January 5, 2015, Respondent Jerk, LLC ("Jerk'') filed a Response to the 

Court's Orde:r of Decernber 22,2014 ("Response''). which included a request to permit 
Jerk to file answers to Complaint Cmmsel 's Second Request for Admissw nsno later than 
JamrwY 13, 2015.  Jetk's request is treated as the renewal of its December 15, 2014 
Motion to Extend Time to Answer Complaint Counsel's Second Request for Admissions 
("December 15 Motion''), ·pursuant to the Order issued December22, 2014 Order 
("D ecember 22 Order"), as modified by the Order issued December 30, 2014 ("December 
30  Order"). 1  Federal Trade Cgtnmission ("FTC") C0mplaint Counsel filed its Opposition 
on  January 8, 201 5 (''Oppt~sition'):  After reviewing the Response, Motion, Oppo$itu)n, 
and the entire record onthe issues presented, and as further explained belo'-'·, the 
Respondent's renewed Motion to Extend Time to Answer Requests for Admi.ssions 
("R enewed Motion") is GRANTED. 

II. 

Requests for Admissions are authorized pursuant to FTC Rule ofPractice 3.32, 16 

C.F.R.  § 3.32.  Rule 3.32(b) ptOYldes that the ::.-ubject matter of a request is deemed 

1 As more fully explained, infra, Jerk's previous motion to file  late answers to  Counsel's Second Request 
f0r  Adm1ssions was denied without prejudice by  the December 22 Order, and, as modified by the 
December 30 Order, Jt"rk was penmtted to renew the motion, no later than January 5, 2015, upon meeting 
certain conditions set out in the December 22 Order. 

"admitted unless, within ten (10) days after serviceofthe request, or within such shorter 
or longer time as the Administrative Law Judge may allow, the party to whom the request 
is directed serves upon the party requesting the admission, ... a sworn: written answer or 
objec.tion addressed to the matter."  16 C.F.R. § 3.32(b).  The Rule further provides: 

Any matter admitted under this rule is conclusively established unless the 
Administrative Law Judge on motion permits withdrawal or amendment 
of the admission.  Th~ Administrative Law Judge may permit withdrawal 
or amendment when the presentation of the merits of the proceeding will 
be subserved thereby and the party wh:() obtained the admission fails to 
satisfy the Administrative Law Judge that withdrawal or amendment will 
prejudice him in mamtaining his action or defense on the merits. 

16 C.F.R § 3.32(c). 

The December 22 Order, as modified by the December 30 Order 

As found in the December 22 Order, Cothplaint Counsel served a S.econd Request 
for Admissions (hereafter, «RF As") on Jerk on November 4,20-14, by emaiiing the RF As 
to Jerk's most recent counsel and by mailing a copy to Jerk~s registered agent, which 
methods had been authorized by Order dated November 3, 2014.  Jerk does not dispute 
that it was properly served with the RFAs and admits that it failed to respond within the 
ten days permitted by Rule 3.32(b).  Thus, by operation qfR ules 3.32(b) and 3.32(c), Jerk 
is deemed to have "conclusively'' admitted the matters requested, unless the 
Administrative Law Judge permits withdrawal or amendment. 

At the time the RF As were served, Jerk was not represented by counsel because 

its counsel of record had withdrawn in July 2014 and Jerk had not yet obtained new 
counsel.  The December 15 Mohon averred that Jerk had now obtained new counsel, who 
was working witb Jerk to defend th1s matter on the merits.  However, because Jerk failed 
to adequately explain the reasons for tts delay in retaining new col.insel, or why such 
delay should be excused, and because Jerk was in default under two previously issued 
discovery orders, the December 15 Motion was demed without prejudice.  The December 
22 Order heJd that "no later than December 29, 2014, (Jerk] may renew its motion, and 
the request for relief will be reconsidered upon showing, in addition to any other 
requirements under 332(c): (1) an explanatiO!l for the delay in Jerk's obtaining new 
counsel, including all reasons therefor; and (2) an offer and detailed plan to promptly 
comply with the orders  of August 15 [requiring Jerk to  respond to interrogatones and 
document requests]  and November 25,2014 [requinngJerk to provide a corporate 
designee for depos1t1on]."  December 22 Order at J, 

The December 30 Order extended Jerk's time to comply with the December 22 

Order to January 5, 2015. 

2 

Jerk's Response to December 22 Order 

On January 5, 2015, Jerk filed its Response to the December 22 Order, explaining 

the delay jn obtaining new counsel by stating that prior counsel had been subjected to a 
deposition in this case, which "would make many attorneys less likely totake on Jerk's 
representation."  Response at 1.  Je;rk further states that it was working with the other 
parties in the case on a revised scheduling order, to be submitted by joint motion, which 
would provide deadlines for Jerk to respond to outstanding interrogatories and document 
requests?  Jerk further proposed that it file its responses to the outstanding request for 
admissions within the same deadlines, and concluded with its request that its December 
15 Motion be granted. 

Complaint Counsel responds that Jerk's sole stated justification for delaying in 
obtaining new counsel- that the deposition of prior counsel would deter new counsel 
frotn taking Jerk's case- is not support_ed by any evidence and constitutes only 
speculation.  Moreover, Complaint Counsel notes, the deposition of prior counsel 
occurred in October 2014, several 111onths after prior counsel withdrew, and therefore 
cannot provide an excuse for Jerk's failure to obtain new counsel in the interim. 
Therefore, Complaint Counsel argues, Jerk has failed to provide any legitimate 
explanation for its delay in retainmg new counsel, or to demonstrate why such delay 
should be excused, as required by the December 22 Order. 

m. 

Pursuant to Rule 3.32(c), a request to withdraw or amend admissions 1s  allowable 
''when the presentation of the merits of the proceeding will be subserved thereby and the 
party who obtained the admission fails to satisfy the Admmistrative Law Judge that 
withdrawal or amendment will prejudice him in mruntaining his action or defense on the 
merits."  16 C.F.R. § 3.32(c). 

Jerk's arguments. in support of allowing it to answer Complaint Counsel's request 

for admissions, and Complaint Counsel's counter-arguments thereto, are set forth in 
detaj} in the December 22 Order.  By wayofsummary,Jerk argued that it is preferable to 
have disputes resolved on the merits, rather than by default, which would be. the effect of 
allowing Jerk's constructive admissions- which arise solely from Jerk's fallure to timely 
answer under Rule 3.32(b) -- to stand; that it is manifestly prejudicial to Jerk to bind 1t to 
constructive admissions of the factual allegations of the Complaint and of legal liability, 
instead of allowing Jerk to respond on the merits, and that Complaint Counsel will not be 
unduly prejudiced by allowing Jerk to respond to the RFAs. 

In its opposition to Jerk's December 15 Motion. Complaint Counsel asserted that 
Jerk failed to demonstrate, as required for withdrawal or amendme!lt of admtssions under 
Rule 3.32(c), that ··the merits of the action will be subserved" by allowing Jerk to provide 

2 This joint motion was filed. and is d1scussed below. 

3 

,answers to the request for admissions.  Complaint Counsel further argued that Jerk will 
rely on such answers, including denials of requested admissions, to conductnew 
discovery while at the same time depriving Complaint Counsel of the ability to obtain 
discovery to counter the denialsbecause the discovery deadline has passed and the 
evidentiary hearing was; at that time, scheduled for January 27, 2015. 

Since the issuance oftheDecember 22 Order, however, the Commission issued an 
Order reschedulmg the evidentiary hearing in this matter from January 27, 2015 to March 
23, 2015.  Furthennore, on January 6, 2015, consistent with the representations of Jerk in 
its Response, the parties submitted a Joint Revised Scheduling Order, requiring, inter 
alia, that Jerk provide its answers to Complaint Counsel's interrogatories and do.cument 
requests by Januaty 13 , 2014, and that Jerk produce a qualified corporate designee for 
depos1t1on by January 30, 2015.  See First Revised Scheduling Order, January 7, 2015. 
Finally; whether discovery may be reopened is governed by Rule 3.21 (c), which allows 
extencling the discovery deadhne only upon a showing of good cause.  16 C.F.R. 3.2l(c). 

IV. 

Based on the foregoing, Complaint Counsel has failed to dem<;mstrate that it will 

be unduly prejudiced by permitting Jerk to answer the requested adm~ssions.  In addition, 
although Jerk's explanation fot its delay in obtaining counsel is comparativ~ly weak, tbe 
presentation ofthe merits in the proceeding is nevertheless served by allowing Jerk to 
defend on the basis of evidence, rather than to be bound by constructive admissions. 

Accordingly, Jerk's December 15 Motion, as renewed by its Response of January 

5, 2015) is GRANTED, am;l it is hereby ORDERED that Jerk may file answers to 
Complaint Counsel's Second Set ofRequest for Admissions, no later than January 13, 
2015. 

ORDERED: 

Date:  January 9, 2015 

D. Michael Chappell 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 

4 

