PUBLIC 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

COMMISSIONERS: 

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman 
Julie Brill 
Maureen K. Ohlhausen 
Joshua D. Wright 
Terrell McSweeny 

In the matter of 

Jerk, LLC, a limited liability company, 

also d/b/a JERK. COM, and 

John Fanning, individually and as a 

member of Jerk, LLC, 

Respondents. 

} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 

Docket No. 9361 

RESPON DENT JERK, LLC'S OPPOSITION  TO COMPLAINT COUNSEL'S 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY DECISION 

Respondent Jerk, LLC (hereinafter "Jerk") hereby opposes Complaint Counsel's Motion 

for Summary Decision.  Jerk' s right to free speech is guaranteed by the First Amendment to the 

United States Constitution.  The Commission's statutory authority is focused on false or 

misleading commercial speech, but the claims or statements for which Complaint Counsel seeks 

to penalize Jerk are non-commercial, true and not misleading, and/or not material to consumers. 

As such, this speech is constitutionally protected and beyond the Commission's authority to 

regulate.  Even accepting all the evidence proffered by Complaint Counsel, summary decision 

should enter in favor of Jerk, at least on Count I, for failure to make out a violation of Section 

1 

PUBLIC 

5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act that could be constitutionally punished.  At a 

minimum, Complaint Counsel's Motion for Summary Decision should be denied. 1 

STATEMENT REGARDING MATERIAL FACTS 

For purposes of the Motion for Summary Decision, Jerk does not dispute the facts  (as 

distinct from analysis or legal conclusions) set forth in Complaint Counsel's Statement of 

Material Facts (CCSMF).  As to Count I, the only allegations of purportedly false or misleading 

statements by Jerk are in CCSMF ~~ 39-50.  Jerk submits that, as further described below, 

CCSMF ~ 39 ("Respondents represented that content on Jerk, including names, photographs, and 

other content, was created by Jerk.com users and reflected those users' views of the profiled 

individuals.") is not supported by the evidence proffered by Complaint Counsel.  The statements 

quoted or described in CCSMF mf 41  and 43-48 are neither false nor misleading.  The statements 

quoted or described in CCSMF ~~ 49-50 were not made to consumers and therefore cannot form 

the basis ofliability. 

In addition, as further described below, any false or misleading statements by Jerk were 

not material to consumers.  The allegation in CCSMF ~ 52 ("Respondents'  representation that 

content on Jerk.com was created by Jerk.com users and reflected those users' views of the 

profiled individuals was important to consumers and affected consumers'  conduct regarding 

J erk.com. ") is not supported by the evidence proffered by Complaint Counsel.  The essential 

linchpin for Complaint Counsel's theory ofliability is the unsupported idea that consumers 

considered the source of the profiles on jerk. com material to their actions.  Consumers were 

upset because the name of the website was jerk. com; it was immaterial to them whether their 

1 In addition, Jerk incorporates and adopts by reference the arguments made by Respondent John 
Fanning in opposition to Complaint Counsel's Motion for Summary Decision, to the extent that 
they are applicable to both Respondents. 

2 

PUBLIC 

information was posted by an associate or, as Complaint Counsel claims, taken from Facebook. 

Complaint Counsel identifies no evidence making a connection of materiality; each document it 

cites focuses on annoyance based on the name of the website.  See CX0036, ~ 9 (citing worry 

about reputational harm "if people search me and the search results show a Jerk.com entry"); 

CXOOll, ~ 17 ("If people search me and the search results show ajerk.com entry, it really affects 

my business."); CX0037, ~ 7 ("[S]omeone could search my name and see this result pop up, 

causing harm to my personal and professional reputation.").  No consumer identified by 

Complaint Counsel changed his or her behavior because of the purported misstatements in 

CCSMF ~~ 39-50.  And the consumer harms described in CCSMF m\158-167 are immaterial to 

this proceeding unless they are causally linked to violations of the Federal Trade Commission 

Act. 

ARGUMENT 

I. 

THE COMMISSION MAY NOT ABRIDGE JERK'S FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHT 
TO FREEDOM OF SPEECH BY PENALIZING SPEECH THAT IS TRUTHFUL OR 
NON-COMMERCIAL. 

It cannot be denied that Jerk's right to free speech is protected by the First Amendment to 

the United States Constitution.  The Supreme Court has stated specifically:  "First Amendment 

protection extends to corporations."  Citizens United v.  Federal Election Comm 'n,  130 S. Ct. 

876, 899 (2010).  Speech is not deprived ofprotection or considered commercial merely because 

a corporate entity is the speaker.  "Corporations and other associations, like individuals, 

contribute to the 'discussion, debate, and the dissemination of information and ideas' that the 

First Amendment seeks to foster."  Pacific Gas & Elec.  Co.  v.  Public Uti!.  Comm'n of Cal., 475 

U.S.  1,  8 (1986), quoting First Nat.  Bank of Boston v.  Bellotti, 435 U.S. 765, 783  (1978). 

3 

PUBLIC 

In Count I, the Complaint asserts liability for purported misstatements by Jerk, seeking to 

cast pure speech as violations of the Federal Trade Commission Act.  The cloak of First 

Amendment protection sets a high constitutional standard for the Commission to permissibly 

exercise its authority in addition to the requirements of its enabling statute.  Any content-based 

restiiction on non-commercial speech must survive strict scrutiny, i.e., that "it must be narrowly 

tailored to promote a compelling Government interest."  United States v. Playboy Entertainment 

Group, Inc., 529 U.S. 803, 813  (2000).  And the actions ofthe Commission are also constrained 

as to commercial speech:  "Commercial speech that is not false or deceptive and does not 

concern unlawful activities, however, may be restiicted only in the service of a substantial 

governmental interest, and only through means that directly advance that interest."  Zauderer v. 

Office of Disciplinary Counsel ofSupreme CourtofOhio, 471 U.S. 626,638 (1985).  As relevant 

here, the FTC Act prohibits "deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce."  15 U.S.C. § 

45(a)(l).  There is no governmental interest at stake in penalizing speech that is non-deceptive or 

non-commercial under this provision, and so liability for such protected speech would be 

foreclosed under either strict scrutiny or the Zauderer standard. 

II. 

THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE JERK.COM WEBSITE CANNOT FORM 
THE BASIS OF LIABILITY UNDER THE FIRST AMENDMENT BECAUSE THEY 
CONSTITUTE TRUTHFUL, NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH, AND UNDER THE 
STATUTE BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN NO REPRESENTATIONS AND ARE NOT 
DECEPTIVE. 

Complaint Counsel seeks to impose liability on Jerk for statements made in its terms and 

conditions or "About Us" page (hereinafter "T &C"), cited and excerpted in CCSMF ~ 43.  The 

T &C were, by their own terms, a legally binding contract between Jerk and its users.  See 

CX0273 at 1 ("This is a legal agreement ("Agreement") between you and Jerk LLC.").  It would 

raise serious concerns of separation of powers and federalism, in addition to freedom of speech, 

4 

PUBLIC 

if the Commission were to effectively regulate the practice of law by restricting the words 

attorneys could use in crafting contracts.  See American Bar Ass'n v.  FTC, 430 F. 3d 457,470-72 

(D.C. Cir. 2005) (rejecting "the FTC's apparent decision that Congress, after centuries of not 

doing so, has suddenly decided to regulate the practice oflaw").  Such action would be 

especially inappropriate in this case because the T &C contain no factual representations at all, 

only the allocation of rights and liabilities between Jerk and its users.  Even treating the T&C as 

commercial speech would be problematic because, rather than being "expression related solely to 

the economic interests of the speaker and its audience," Central Hudson Gas  & Elec.  Corp.  v. 

Public Serv.  Comm'n ofNY, 447 U.S.  557,561  (1980), the T&C have independent legal 

significance in that they directly impact the rights of Jerk and its users. 

Section 4 of the T &C, 2  which Complaint Counsel seems to think contains a factual 

assertion about the source of information on jerk. com, in fact is a disclaimer and an assertion of 

Jerk's rights under Federal law.  Complaint Counsel selectively quotes only the first portion of 

the first sentence, leaving out the _statement that third-party content onjerk.com "should not be 

relied upon."  Under the Communications Decency Act, Jerk had the 1ight to disclaim liability 

for information provided by other sources, including its users.  See 47 U.S. C.  230(c)(l).  That is 

exactly what Jerk did in Section 4.  Complaint Counsel would take out of context the clause 

"content made available through jerk. com [is that]  of [its] respective authors and not of Jerk 

2 Section 4 of the T&C, entitled "Online Content," is reproduced here in full: 

Opinions, advice, statements, offers, or other information or content made available 
throughjerk.com are those of their respective authors and not of Jerk LLC, and should 
not necessarily be relied upon. Such authors are solely responsible for the accuracy of 
such content. Jerk LLC does not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of 
any information on jerk. com and neither adopts nor endorses nor is responsible for the 
accuracy or reliability of any opinion, advice or statement made. Under no circumstances 
will Jerk LLC be responsible for any loss or damage resulting from anyone's reliance on 
information or other content posted on jerk.com.  (CX0273 at 1) 

5 

PUBLIC 

LLC" and interpret it unreasonably as a statement that no content on jerk. com was actually 

authored by Jerk, LLC.  This would mean that the Jerk logo, home page, and all other website 

content was created by some unidentified third party, which no consumer or reasonable person 

would believe.  Instead, Section 4 unambiguously asserts, consistent with Jerk's rights under the 

Communications Decency Act, that third-party content on Jerk is the responsibility ofthe third(cid:173)

parties who provided it.  It would defy common sense and public policy if Jerk's assertion and 

notification of its statutory rights were found to constitute a misleading trade practice. 

To the extent that there is any representation of fact in Section 4, it is true.  The evidence 

proffered by Complaint Counsel indicates that content on jerk. com came from a variety of 

sources, including Facebook, Intelius, other web sources, and Jerk users themselves.  See 

CCSMF ~1[27, 30, 57-60.  Jerk was not the "author" of any ofthis content.  For instance, if a 

Jerk user created a profile, the author of that profile would be the Jerk user.  A Facebook user's 

name and public profile picture would be created or provided by that user.  Putting to one side 

the wholly unreasonable interpretation of Section 4 adopted by Complaint Counsel, Section 4 is 

neither false nor misleading because it accurately conveys that Jerk accepts no responsibility for 

content not created by Jerk. 

The rest of the T&C also constitutes contract language and not any factual representation. 

Complaint Counsel identifies unremarkable disclaimers in the T &C as somehow insidious and 

misleading.  See CX0273, Section 2 ("You agree that: You are solely responsible for the content 

or information you publish or display (hereinafter, 'post') on jerk. com."); Section 5 ("By posting 

information on jerk. com, you understand and agree that the material will not be removed even at 

your request. You shall remain solely responsible for the content of your postings on jerk.com."). 

To the extent that these provisions convey any facts, they state truthfully that users could publish 

6 

PUBLIC 

content to jerk.com and that Jerk disclaimed any liability for that content.  See CCSMF ~~ 26-28, 

30.  Complaint Counsel asserts that the T &C implicitly represented that all profiles on jerk.com 

were created by jerk.com users.  Nowhere is that stated in the T&C, and that would be an 

unreasonable inference to draw from the T &C. 3  Liability cannot be created out of thin air by 

inventing a representation Jerk never made and then asserting that it was false. 

As truthful, non-commercial speech, the T &C cannot be constitutionally proscribed. 

There is no governmental interest in penalizing. Jerk for publishing the T &C, nor are the broad 

remedies sought narrowly tailored to any such interest.  Moreover, because the T &C contained 

no representations at all, and certainly no  deceptive representations, the T &C fall outside the 

scope of the FTC Act. 

III. 

JERK'S STATEMENTS ABOUT USERS' ABILITIES TO POST CONTENT WERE 
TRUE AND NOT DECEPTIVE, AND THUS ALSO PROTECTED BY THE FIRST 
AMENDMENT AND NOT COVERED BY THE FTC ACT. 

A  similar analysis applies to Jerk's representations that users had the ability to post 

content on jerk. com.  Complaint Counsel cites several such statements or aspects of jerk. com, 

which, though constituting commercial speech, were entirely truthful and in no way deceptive: 

"The Jerk.com homepage featured profiles with comments and votes," CCSMF ~ 41; "The 

'Remove Me!' section on Jerk.com has stated, 'Jerk is where you find out if someone is ajerk, is 

not a jerk, or is a saint in the eyes of others,"' CCSMF ~ 44; "Jerk.com's 'Post a Jerk' section 

stated:  'Fill out the form below to find or create a profile onjerk. Include a picture if you can and 

as much other information as possible,"' CCSMF ~ 45; "Jerk.com's Twitter account has stated, 

' Find out what your "friends" are saying about you behind your back to the rest ofthe world! "', 

3 Of course, few users of any website pay any attention, let alone close attention, to the terms and 
conditions, which are commonly viewed as boilerplate legalese.  That commonly understood fact 
makes it even less reasonable to draw the inferences Complaint Counsel does from the T &C. 

7 

PUBLIC 

CCSMF f146.  The jerk. com homepage did have profiles with comments and votes, because 

users did have the capability to post profiles, vote people as "jerks" or "not jerks," and post 

comments on profiles.  See CCSMF mJ 26-28, 30.  If a person had a profile on jerk.com and a 

friend had commented on that profile, that person could, indeed, see what their friends were 

saying about them.  If, instead, nobody had voted on an individual's profile, the profile would 

state that the person was "not a Jerk."  See CCSMF mJ  14, 29, 66.  None of this is false or 

misleading in the least; 4  in fact, Complaint Counsel lists as indisputably true that "Jerk.com was 

a website where users could vote someone a 'Jerk' or 'not a Jerk,"' as well as that users could 

submit comments and personal information about profiled individuals.  CCSMF ~~ 14, 26-28. 

The FTC Act does not cover non-deceptive speech, and even if it did, the Commission's ability 

to restrict it would be curtailed by the First Amendment.  See Zauderer, 471  U.S. at 638. 

IV.  ANY FALSE OR MISLEADING STATEMENTS BY JERK WERE NOT MATERIAL 

TO CONSUMERS. 

Once the wheat is separated from the chaff, Complaint Counsel is left with only one 

purported factual representation to consumers that any evidence suggests could b~ false or 

misleading: that "millions of people ... use Jerk for important updates for business, dating, and 

more." 5  CCSMF, 42.  This was not material in the least to consumers, who knew and cared 

4  Similarly, the representations in the Wikipedia page that Jerk representatives allegedly drafted 
(CCSMF ~ 48) are true, and Complaint Counsel identifies no part of them that is false or 
misleading. 
5 Complaint Counsel asserts that Jerk intended to convey that "Jerk. com was an organic social 
network created by Jerk.com users," CCSMF ~~ 47, but identifies no evidence demonstrating 
how this purported representation was, in fact,  conveyed.  The representation that jerk. com 
reflected users' views of people profiled was tme to the extent thatjerk.com users submitted 
votes or comments about them; otherwise, the profile would state that the person was "not a 
jerk" and have no further information.  See CCSMF m!26-28, 30, 66 ("Approximately 99 
percent of Jerk. com profiles did not contain user comments or a vote of Jerk/Not a Jerk."); 
CX0036, ~ 3 ("The profile had no other information about me or my family ... no one had 
voted."). 

8 

PUBLIC 

only that they had profiles on a website called jerk. com.  See CX0036, ~ 9 (citing worry about 

reputational harm "ifpeople search me and the search results show aJerk.com entry"); CX0011, 

~ 17 ("If people search me and the search results show a jerk.com entry, it really affects my 

business."); CX0037, ~ 7 ("[S]omeone could search my name and see this result pop up, causing 

harm to my personal and professional reputation."). 

Complaint Counsel makes no argument that the "millions of people .. . use Jerk" 

statement is independently material, ~d such an argument would be unavailing.  While the 

Commission may "apply, within reason, a presumption of materiality," such a presumption is 

unwarranted here.  Kraft, Inc.  v.  FTC, 970 F .2d 311, 322 (7th Cir. 1992).  Rather than the type of 

factual representation on which consumers could be expected to rely, this statement was mere 

puffery that stated, in general terms, that consumers should consider Jerk.  "In the FTC context, 

we have recognized puffery in advertising to be  'claims [which] are either vague or highly 

subjective."'  Cook,  Perkiss & Liehe, Inc.  v.  N  Cal.  Collection Serv.  Inc., 911  F. 2d 242,246 

(9th Cir.  1990), quoting Sterling Drug,  Inc.  v .. Federal Trade Commission, 741  F.2d 1146, 1150 

(9th Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 470 U.S.  1084 (1985).  The brief Twitter post merely illustrates 

possible uses for Jerk's service.  It does not give any specific information about how any set of 

people use Jerk' s service, or for how long.  Even if the vague reference to "millions of people" is 

considered factual, rather than hyperbole, no reasonable consumer would have relied upon it, and 

Complaint Counsel has identified nobody who did.  Such aspirationallanguage, standing alone, 

would not induce any change in behavior by consumers, and none of the consumers who 

submitted affidavits claim to have been influenced in any decision by this statement.  In fact, 

Complaint Counsel's own version of events indicates that such exaggerated rhetoric had no 

effect on consumers, because Jerk had "few users," CCSMF ~ 17, " [f]ew users frequented or 

9 

PUBLIC 

interacted with Jerk.com," CCS~F 'If 61, "[t]he vast majority ofusers visited Jerk.com only 

once," CCSMF -,J  63, and "[u]sers consistently spent less than a minute on Jerk.com," CCSMF 'If 

64. 

On Count I, Complaint Counsel identifies the sole representation underpinning its theory 

of liability as "the representation that the content on J erk.com, including the names, photographs, 

and other content displayed in the millions of the profile pages on the site, was created by 

Jerk.com users and reflected those users' views of the profiled individuals."  Motion for 

Summary Decision at 18.  This is also the only representation pleaded in the Complaint as 

warranting relief on Count I.  Complaint, '1[,-r  15-16.  As explained above, Jerk never made this 

representation.  Complaint Counsel's distortions of truthful and non-misleading speech do not 

suffice to create liability, and doing so would be inconsistent with the First Amendment. 

Complaint Counsel argues that this purported representation could be presumed material 

because it was made explicitly or was made implicitly but intentionally.  See Kraft,  Inc., 970 

F.2d at 322.  No explicit representation is contained in the evidence, so that theory fails.  Even if 

the Commission somehow discerns an implicit representation, the presumption of materiality 

does not apply because there is no evidence Jerk intended to make it to consumers.  Complaint 

Counsel identifies evidence suggesting that investors or others acting on Jerk's behalf made a 

related representation to investors and other non-consumers through channels totally separate 

from the statements on jerk. com or Twitters that were directed at consumers.  See CCSMF ~,-r 

49-50.  A claim not made to consumers could not possibly be material to those consumers, and 

falls  outside the Commission's regulatory jurisdiction.  Cf. Kraft, Inc., supra at 322-23.  It is 

additionally outside the allegations in the Complaint, and therefore not a permissible basis for 

relief.  See Complaint, ,-r  8 ("Respondents have disseminated or have caused to be disseminated 

10 

PUBLIC 

statements to consumers ... " (emphasis supplied)), ~ 15 (alleging that purported 

misrepresentation was made "[t]hrough the means described in Paragraph 8"). 

This alleged representation was not in fact material to consumers, and any presumption of 

materiality would be unreasonable if applied, because Complaint Counsel's own evidence shows 

that Jerk's name, not the source of the profiles, was the source of consumers' concerns.  See 

CX0036, 'If 9; CXOOll, ,-r  17; CX0037, ~ 7.  A briefhypothetical illustrates this point.  Suppose 

that substantially identical profiles to those on jerk. com were shown instead on a website called 

WonderfulPeople.com.  The website would pose the question, "Is [Individual Profiled] 

Wonderful?" and ask users to vote whether a person profiled was a Saint, a Wonderful Person, or 

Not a Very Wonderful Person.  Most profiles, having no votes, would report that the person was 

or might be a Wonderful Person.  The consumers identified by Complaint Counsel would have 

had no· reason to care whether such pages showed up in Google results for their names.  They 

would not be concerned about harm to their reputations or businesses.  And they certainly would 

not care who put the profile there or how many people used WonderfulPeople on a regular basis. 

Only the name of the website, which is speech protected by the First Amendment, differentiates 

the two situations. 

Complaint Counsel cites evidence that some consumers believed that people they knew 

had created profiles about them.  If so, these consumers must have believed that someone they 

knew put in their name and photo, but added no other information and did not vote on whether or 

not they were "jerks."  See CX0036, 'If 3 ("The profile had no other information about me or my 

family ... no one had voted.").  In no case does any consumer aver that this belief, even if 

mistaken, caused them to  change their behavior towards Jerk.  They may have been upset, as 

explained above, because they did not want to be associated with a site called jerk. com.  They 

11 

PUBLIC 

also may hav:e been concerned that their personal information was available on the Internet or 

had been available through Facebook, but the Complaint does not allege that this fact in any way 

violated the Federal Trade Commission Act.  In  short, consumers may have had concerns about 

what was on Jerk's website, but that content was speech protected by the First Amendment and 

by the Communications Decency Act.  Any harm they suffered was not traceable to any 

deceptive representations or unlawful conduct by Jerk.  Liability based on the facts alleged by 

Complaint Counsel would be unwarranted by the scope of the statute and inconsistent with the 

Constitution and public policy. 

WHEREFORE, Jerk respectfully requests that this Honorable Commission deny 

Complaint Counsel's Motion for Summary Decision and instead enter summary decision in 

Jerk's favor on Count I. 

Respectfully submitted, 

JERK, LLC, 
By its attorneys, 

~~-

David Duncan (Mass. BBO #546121) 
David A. Russcol (Mass. BBO #670768) 
Zalkind Duncan &  Bernstein LLP 
65A Atlantic Ave. 
Boston, MA 0211 0 
Phone: (617) 742-6020 
Fax: (617) 742-3269 
dduncan@zalkindlaw .com 
drusscol@zalkindlaw .com 

12 

Dated: January 5, 2015 

PUBLIC 

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 

I,  David A. Russcol, hereby certify that I have, on January 5, 2015, caused a copy of the 

foregoing document to be served by email on Complaint Counsel and counsel for Respondent 
John Fanning, and that I have filed true and correct copies of thereof electronically with the 
Secretary of the Commission and the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge.  In addition, 
I have this day caused an original and twelve copies to be delivered by Federal Express to 
Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room H-
172, Washington, D.C., 20580. 

David A. Russcol 

13 

